
 

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Effectivity Pronouncement	i
Statement of Reservation	ii
Statement of Non−Discrimination	ii
Foreword	iii
History of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart	iv
History of Cor Jesu College	vii
Vision, Mission & Core Value of Cor Jesu College	xix
Spirituality of Compassion	xx
Philosophy of Education	xxi
Philosophy of Management	xxii
The Three Pillars of Cor Jesu College:
Excellence, Community & Apostleship	xxiv
Seal of Cor Jesu College	xxv
SECTION I. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE DIFFERENT COLLEGES
General Goals and Objectives of the Different Colleges	1
Specific Objectives of the Different Colleges	1
College of Education Arts and Sciences	1
College of Accountancy, Business, and Entrepreneurship	11
College of Engineering	17
College of Computing and Information Sciences	19
College of Health Sciences	21
College of Special Programs	26
SECTION II. DEGREE PROGRAMS, ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
A.	Degree Programs	36
College of Education, Arts and Sciences (CEDAS)	36
College of Accountancy, Business and Entrepreneurship (CABE)	36
College of Engineering (COE)	36
College of Computing and Information Sciences (CCIS)	36
College of Health Sciences (CHS)	36
College of Special Programs (CSP)	37
B.	Academic Standards and Regulations	37
General Standards	37
Specific Standards	38
College of Education, Arts, and Sciences (CEDAS)	38
College of Accountancy, Business, and Entrepreneurship (CABE)	40
College of Engineering (CoE)	45
College of Computing and Information Sciences (CCIS)	47
College of Health Sciences (CHS)	50
Policy on Graduates Taking Board Examinations	57
C.	Examinations	59
D.	Grading System	60
E.	Graduation Requirements	62
F.	Latin Honors	63
G.	Annual Academic Awards	63
SECTION III. ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
Basic Requirements for Regular Colleges	64
Basic Requirements for the College of Social Programs	65
Enrolment Process	66
Enrolment Policies	68
Policy on General Admission and Re−Admission of Students	68
Withdrawal of Credentials and Enrolment	69
Issuance of School Credentials	70
SECTION IV. CLASS ATTENDANCE AND ABSENCES
General Rules on Attendance and Absences	71
Maximum Number of Absences Allowed	72
Excused Absences	72
Procedures of the Issuance of Slips	72
SECTION V. SCHOLARSHIPS
Academic Scholarship	73
Classification of Scholarships	73
Requirements and Procedures for Academic Scholarships	74
Policies on Academic Scholarship	74
Non−Academic Scholarship	75
Scholarships, Requirements, Qualifications, and Policies	75
Privileges and Conditions	76
Policies on Non−Academic Scholarship	76
Subject Loads, Grades, Duties, and Responsibilities	77
Evaluation and Termination of Non−Academic Scholars	78
Requirements for Renewal of Scholarship	78
SECTION VI. INSTITUTIONAL RULES AND NORMS
Rights and Freedom of Students	79
Proper Conduct and Behavior	80
Classroom Discipline	82
Conduct Outside the School Campus	83
Good Grooming	83
Rules on School Uniform and Attire during Non−Uniform	84
The Standard Campus Uniform	84
Wednesday Attire	84
Saturday and Sunday Attire	85
Uniform for Other Programs	86
Wearing of School ID	87
School Publication	87
Releasing of Transfer Credentials Prohibition	89
Releasing of School Record of Students	89
SECTION VII. VIOLATIONS, DISCIPLINARY, and INTERVENTION MEASURES
Classification of Offenses	90
Major Offenses	90
Category A	90
Category B	91
Category C	92
Minor Offenses	93
Sanctions	94
Formative Intervention Process	95
For Expulsion Category	95
For Exclusion Category	95
For Suspension Category	95
For Minor Offense Category	96
Determining the Violation	97
Jurisdiction of the Cases	97
Student Disciplinary Board	97
Pregnant Students	98
SECTION VIII. ORGANIZATIONS AND INTEREST CLUBS
Classification of Organizations and Interest Clubs	100
Requirements for Accreditation of Clubs and Organizations	101
Requirements for Affiliated Clubs and Organizations	102
Procedures on Accreditation of Organizations	102
Requirements for Re−accreditation of Clubs and Organizations	103
Qualification of Officers and Members	103
Election of Club/Organization Officers	104
Functions of Officers and Members	104
Moderators	104
Records of Organizations	105
Activities and Projects	106
Sanctions	107
SECTION IX. CO-CURRICULAR AND EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Co−curricular Activities	109
Extra−curricular Activities	109
Intramural Activities	110
Others Activities	110
Trainers, Referees, and Judges for Competitions	110
Practices of Presentations	111
Requirements for Off−Campus Activities	111
Requirements for On−Campus Activities	112
Procedures for Approval of Activities	113
Attendance of Students in Various Activities	113
Behavior of Students during On and Off−Campus Activities	113
Budget and Liquidation of Funds	114
Restoration After Activities	114
Disapproval of Activities	115
SECTION X. NON-ACADEMIC AWARDS
Institutional Awards	116
Fr. Andre Coindre Leadership Award	116
Br. Polycarp Community Service Award	116
Br. Elric Campus Ministry Award	117
Br. Francis Loyalty Award	118
Special Awards	118
Outstanding Interest Organizations	118
Hall of Fame	119
Outstanding College Students	119
Outstanding Organization Member	120
Outstanding Athlete	120
Outstanding Visual Artist	121
Outstanding Journalist	121
Outstanding Student Assistant	122
Nightingale Award	122
Anastacia Giron−Tupaz Award	123
RLE Awards for Nursing	123
Clinical Efficiency Award for BSRT and BSMLS	124
Procedures on the Selection of Awardees	125
SECTION XI. ACADEMIC SUPPORT SERVICES
Office of the Registrar	127
Learning and Information Resource Center (LIRC)	128
Educational Technology Center	138
CJC Br. Polycarp Institute for Community Development Foundation	144
Sacred Heart Formation and Mission	149
Student Services Center	153
Guidance and Counseling Center	156
Student Affairs and Activities	161
Student Discipline and Formation	162
School Clinic	163
Sports Development	166
Musical Arts	167
Canteen Services	168
External and Alumni Affairs Office	169
SECTION XII. INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES
A.	Finance Office	170
B.	General and Administrative Services	173
Physical Plants and Equipment	173
Center for Instructional and Mimeographing Services (CIMS)	173
C.	Laboratories	174
Computer Laboratory	174
Internet Laboratory	176
Biology and Chemistry Laboratories	178
Speech Laboratory	180
Home Economics	180
Hospitality Management Laboratories	181
Engineering Laboratories	183
Psychology Laboratory and Counseling Room	185
Criminology Laboratories	185
Business Simulation Hub	187
D.	Gymnasium	188
E.	Use of School Facilities	189
F.	Use of School Transportation	190
G.	Regulations on Vehicles, Bicycles, Motorcycles, and Tricycles	192
H.	Regulations on Visitors Entering the Campus	193
I.	Regulation and Guidelines on Emergency Cases	193
J.	Campus Security and Safety	202
K.	Policy on Waste Disposal	208
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Excerpts from Republic Act No. 9165	211
Appendix B: Republic Act No. 8049	229
Appendix C: Republic Act No. 7079	233
Appendix D: Republic Act No. 7877	236
Appendix E: Republic Act No. 10627	240
Appendix F: Student Data Privacy Consent Form	245
Appendix G: Policy and Guidelines for the Conduct of Drug Testing for Community Student	252
Appendix H: Location Map: Cor Jesu College Campuses	258
Appendix I: Name of School Buildings	259
Appendix J: Organizational Structure	262
 
E F F E C T I V I T Y
Pronouncement


By virtue of the authority vested upon me as School President of Cor Jesu College, I hereby approve this Revised College Student Handbook effective August 2022 at the City of Digos, Province of Davao del Sur hereby setting forth its effectivity.


BR. ELLAKIM P. SOSMEÑA, S.C., PhD
President
 
Statement of Reservation
The Cor Jesu College reserves the right to change the fees, rules and calendar regulating admission and registration; to change regulations concerning instruction and graduation from the College and its various divisions; to withdraw courses; and to change any other regulation affecting the student body. Changes go into effect whenever the proper authorities so determine and apply not only to prospective students, but also to those who, at that time, are matriculated at the College.
The College also reserves the right to deny admission to any applicant, to dismiss when formal academic action is taken by the Academic Standards Committee, to discontinue the enrolment of a student in violation of the Social Norms, or to request withdrawal of a student whose continuance in the college would be detrimental to his or her health or to the health or security of others. Every effort is made to be fair and reasonable in the application of the rules.

Statement of Non-Discrimination
Cor Jesu College is committed to a policy of equal opportunity and non−discrimination on the basis of race, nationality, religion, sex, age, or disability, as protected by law, in all educational programs and activities, and admission of students.
 
FOREWORD
Cor Jesu College (CJC) is a Catholic educational institution that adheres to the highest educational standards of learning and practices. It is guided by the teachings of the Catholic Church and the charism of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart.

The students are important stakeholders of the school. Their performances in various fields on and off campus are manifestations of the realization of its shared beliefs and ideals. Thus, the College, together with the students, must readily perform their roles and functions.
This College Student Handbook provides information about Cor Jesu College. It aims to acquaint students and parents with the school programs, services and policies; and to guide the school personnel, students and other stakeholders of the College in carrying out their duties.

The school recognizes that the right of students to quality education can only be achieved within a pleasant, healthy and safe school environment. As important stakeholders of the institution, they are provided with efficient and effective teachings, relevant school programs and responsive student support services.
As the Board of Trustees, Administration, Faculty and Staff welcome all students, they are reminded that the quality of their experiences at Cor Jesu College depends on how they accept the responsibilities of undertaking educational, social and spiritual endeavors and how they can strike a balance in performing them. As they are afforded with opportunities, this handbook provides the rules of discipline necessary for successful endeavors.

Finally, Cor Jesu College takes pride in providing students the best Catholic Education. It is hoped that they will endeavor to a great extent in upholding the shared beliefs and ideals to become compassionate persons to everyone regardless of profession, belief and culture and giving special preference to those who are poor and in need of hope.

The Administration
 
History of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart

At the beginning was the story of two abandoned little girls outside Saint Nizier Church when France was still recovering from the French Revolution (1789). Moved with compassion, Fr. Andre Coindre who was a young diocesan missionary priest, entrusted them to Claudine Thevenet, later foundress of the Religious of Jesus and Mary and canonized as saint.
More neglected children rambled the streets of France that led him to gather and form ten young men to take care of the boys. With this direction, these men made their private vows to religious Brotherhood at the Church of Fourviere on September 30, 1821. Thus, the Institute of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart was born on that day at Lyons, France by Fr. Andre Coindre as its founder.

The Brothers of the Sacred Heart is a Catholic religious institute of Brothers whose members follow Jesus of Nazareth who lived His life as a brother to all; center their spirituality on the Pierced Heart of Jesus; live in a community witnessing to a life of poverty, chastity and obedience; and contribute as religious educators, particularly through education and formation of the youth, especially the poor and in need of hope.

Upon the Founder’s death (1826) five years later, Fr. Francois Coindre, the founder’s brother, succeeded him as head of the congregation. He was replaced in 1841 by Venerable Br. Polycarp who was considered as the “second founder” of the Institute because of his many valuable contributions to the congregation.
During the eighteen years of his administration, Br. Polycarp endowed the institute with its rules, considered its organization, secured the approbation of the Government for the whole of France (1851), raised the number of members from 85 to 400 and established schools even in far−off America (1846). He was pronounced Venerable Brother Polycarp by His Holiness John Paul II in 1984.
The one who succeeded as superior after Br. Polycarp was Br. Adrian (1859−1887). He introduced the institute into Canada in 1872.
 
He was followed by Br. Norbert (1887−1900), who obtained for the congregation the official recognition of the Church. He was known as “dona ma lego,” a title which describes “the man who prays” or “the man who walks with God.” He was declared Venerable Brother Norbert by the Sovereign Pontiff Francis on May 19, 2018.
Brother Paulus (1900−1906) was forced to watch helplessly the dissolution of the Institute in France in 1903. However, the losses in one country were gains in others, as the dispersion brought about the foundation of a province in Spain and another in Belgium.

The General Chapter of 1906 chose Br. Alberic as Superior. In a short time, he repaired the ruins brought about by the dissolution, aroused the courage of the brothers and restored confidence in the future of the congregation.
The Brothers opened a mission in Madagascar (Republic of Malagasy) in 1928; Egyptian Sudan in 1929; Uganda in 1931. They entered Uruguay in 1928, Argentina and Syria in 1930 and Italy in 1931.

The Brothers of the Sacred Heart took root in Bangladesh (Lesotho) in 1937; Haiti in 1943; Brazil and Chile in 1945; Kenya in 1948; Cameroon in 1953; Holland (The Netherlands) and New Caledonia in 1954; England and French-Guinea in 1955; Zambia in 1956; Colombia and Northern Rhodesia in 1956; Ivory Coast in 1957; Senegal and the Philippines in 1959; Zimbabwe in 1960; Australia in 1964; Mali and Zaire in 1973; Peru, Chad, French Polynesia (Oceania) in 1982; Togo and Burkina Faso in 1985 and Anatongas, Mozambique in 2011.
In 1959, three Brothers from Ottawa Province, Canada, came to the
Philippines and started their mission in the school in Digos, Davao del Sur.
The Brothers were determined to open the institute to young Filipinos. In 1962, they established a formation house, The Sacred Heart Juniorate in Catalunan Grande, Davao City which has presently been transformed into the
 
Sacred Heart Spirituality Center, a popular venue for recollections, retreats and seminars.

In 1976, the brothers accepted the direction and administration of the Maryknoll High School of Mabini, Davao del Norte, now known as Cor Jesu High School and Letran de Davao High School in Tagum City in 1990. Eventually, both schools were handed back to the Diocese of Tagum; Cor Jesu High School in 1999 and Letran de Davao in 2001.
In 1989, a property was acquired in Juna Subdivision, Matina, Davao City to serve as the Center for the Regional Administration in the Philippines. Likewise, a House of Studies was constructed for candidates in formation in 1991 as well as other structures and facilities for a Youth Center.
Upon the invitation of Msgr. Vicente Bauson, Manila Community was opened in 2009 for the brothers to collaborate with the Campus Ministry of the Archdiocese of Manila. In 2010, the brothers accepted the invitation from the Luzon Association of Religious Brothers (LARB) to assume the administration of Kuya Center, an establishment for street children located in Cubao, Quezon City.

Today, the Brothers of the Sacred Heart is present in 33 countries continuing the work started by Fr. Andre Coindre and further strengthened by Venerable Br. Polycarp.
 
History of Cor Jesu College
Cor Jesu College, Inc. is a school owned and managed by the Brothers of the Sacred Heart, Philippine Delegation.

It traces its roots when Bishop Clovis Thibault, PME of the Archdiocese of Davao, with the request of Fr. Maurice Leveille, PME (then parish priest), invited the Brothers of the Sacred Heart to take over the management of 220 high school boys from the Holy Cross Academy which was then under the administration of the Religious of the Virgin Mary (RVM).
The congregation accepted the invitation. In 1959, three Canadian brothers came to the Philippines. They were John Paul “Elric” Beaudet, SC, John Paul “Elric” Beaudet, SC, Clement Tranchemontagne, SC, and Guillaume McCabe, SC

In school year (SY) 1960−1961, the brothers administered the Boys’ Department of Holy Cross Academy in a new campus, partnering with six lay male collaborators, namely: Rosalio Deloria, Diosdado Ypil, Teodosio Geyrozaga, Pedro Soriano, Rogelio Magdayao, and Alfredo Barrera.
The Boys’ Department became a college institution with its incorporation on November 9, 1962, and was renamed the Holy Cross College of Digos (HCCD), with Fr. Maurice Michaud, PME as the first chairman of the Board of Trustees and Br. Beaudet, SC as the first rector. The school offered college programs like the Bachelor of Arts (BA) with majors in English and History; Bachelor of Commerce (BC) majors in Accounting, Business Administration and Banking and Finance; Bachelor of Science (BS) in Education and BS in Elementary Education. A Certificate of Secretarial Course, a non−degree program, was also offered.

In the following year 1963, the Elementary Department was opened and placed under the administration of HCCD.

In 1968, the HCCD had its second rector when Br. Clement Tranchemontagne, SC, was appointed by the Board. During his term, the school was granted preliminary accreditation status for its collegiate
 
programs, namely: BSC, AB, BSE, and BSEED by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU) in December 1971.
Holy Cross College of Digos was blessed with another rector, Br. Christopher Patenaude, SC in 1972. It was in September of the same year when Martial Law was declared. It resulted in the suspension of classes. Upon resumption, the enrolment declined considerably. Consequently, the BSE and the BSEED programs were temporarily suspended. During this year, the Planning and Development Office (PDO) was created. It paved the way for the visit of and tie up with the Fund for Assistance to Private Education (FAPE) in matters of strengthening quality education. In the same year, PAASCU team surveyed the collegiate programs and awarded it a Level 1 status.

In 1975, Br. Roger Bouley, SC was appointed as rector of the school. During his first year in office, the HCCD Research Center was born. It was designed to complement the needs of the academic departments and the PDO. Intensive training sessions for school administrators were conducted. The greatest achievement of the school was the publication of its five−year development plan, entitled “An Educational Blueprint for the Holy Cross College of Digos”. Furthermore, the HCCD collegiate programs were given PAASCU Level II accreditation.

In 1976, the Community Service and Alumni Affairs Office was established and a full−time director was appointed. As the center put premium thrust on peoples’ development in the countryside, it extended many educational, religious, socio−cultural and recreational projects and services to the needy. The center was complemented by the PDO that developed project proposals for funding. Moreover, the Bachelor of Psychology was offered.

The school had its first Filipino president when Br. Raymond D, Legal, SC was appointed by the Board of Trustees in 1978. He introduced new programs and services which helped the school attain recognition. During his tenure, he was chosen as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Men (TOYM) of the Philippines.
 
In the same year, BSED and BEED courses were re−opened along with Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE). The course has produced topnotchers in the Licensure Examination for Civil Engineers of the Philippine Regulation Commission (PRC).
From 1978−1982, the Community Service Center made a headway when it implemented twelve projects and services that benefitted a lot of people in the countryside. These included the Mobile Library Services, Kunsulta Program, Mobile Audio−Visual Services, Dressmaking, Tailoring, Embroidery, Livelihood Projects, Machine Shop Training, Automotive Course, Electronics and Health, Nutrition and Family Planning among others.

The HCCD ventured on what was taboo for a school at that time when it opened its first business venture in 1980. It took over the management of a Shell Gasoline Station and operated a bookstore in the Poblacion of Digos. In the succeeding years, it expanded its business by opening another gasoline station in Padada, Davao del Sur and subsequently opened another in Davao City. Another bookstore was also established in Kidapawan City. These bookstores were eventually closed and the gasoline stations outside Digos were turned over to the company after several years of operation due to the problem of financial viability.

In 1981, the Bachelor of Laws was offered under the deanship of Atty. Josefina B. Almazan. Since its offering, the Law School has already produced trial court lawyers, prosecutors and trial court judges.
The dynamism of the institution was expressed by its willingness to undergo an in−depth evaluation of its systems and resources. This gave impetus to the thrusts of the institution, the vision of the founders and the realities of the next millennium. The result of the evaluation facilitated the change of the institution’s corporate name to Cor Jesu College (CJC) in 1982.

In 1984, the Community Services Center, which was affiliated with the Christian Children’s Fund, gave birth to the Cor Jesu Children’s Assistance Rehabilitation and Emancipation CARE) Center. It implemented several projects that benefitted a lot of children and families in Digos City and nearby municipalities.
 
Cor Jesu College had its second Filipino President when Br. Jesus M. Lape, SC was appointed by the Board of Trustees in 1985. During his tenure, the Vocational Technology was opened. The new department was equipped with new facilities, courtesy of Misereor of Germany. These facilities were augmented by the donation of Mr. Joseph Idzu, a Japanese philanthropist, and other foreign donors. He maintained also a scholarship endowment for student interested to pursue Vocational Technology courses. The new department offered approved TESDA short courses in carpentry, automotive, electrical and driving.

In 1985, Master in Business Administration (MBA), a graduate program, was opened as a consortium program with the Ateneo de Davao University (ADDU). But the consortium with ADDU ceased when this program was given recognition by the government in 1994. With MBA as the original program of the Graduate School, two others were added to its program offering, namely, Master of Arts in Education (MAED), Master in Library and Information Science (MLIS), and Master in Public Administration (MPA).
In SY 1987−88, the Midwifery course was offered as a joint project of Cor Jesu College, San Pedro Hospital−Digos, and the Davao del Sur National Hospital. The school produced 13th and sixteenth placers in Midwifery Licensure Examinations. After 12 years of operation, the management decided to suspend the offering of the Midwifery course. Later it was re− opened and offered as Bachelor of Science in Midwifery in 2008.
The school gained national recognition when Genevieve Marie Brandares was chosen as one of the Ten Outstanding Students of the Philippines (TOSP) in 1989. Brandares was also named one of the Ten Outstanding Students Leaders (TOSL) in the same year. This was boosted when Aristotle Erasmo won first runner−up in the Asian Super Quiz Bee held in Manila in 1991.

After many years, the college had its first lay top administrator in 1992 when Mr. Rolando A. Fabiaña, MA was appointed as Acting President after he served as Vice President and Planning Officer of the school. His appointment
 
was seen as a realization of the spirit of Vatican II empowering the lay in the apostolic works of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart particularly in the school.

In SY 1990−91, the High School Boys’ Department became co− educational. Enrollment surged up significantly. To decongest the main campus, the Grade School Department was transferred to Sto. Rosario, Tres de Mayo in January 1993. It was housed in a three−storey and 30−classroom concrete building within an almost 5−hectare campus. However, in SY 2001− 2002, the Elementary Department was returned to the main campus. Both the Elementary and High School Departments formed the Basic Education Department (BED); administered by one principal.
In 1993, the school renamed the Community Service and Alumni Affairs Office to an Institute for Community Services and Development (ICSD). In response to the needs of the community, the administration incorporated all services and projects of the center into six programs, namely: 1.) Social Welfare and Development; 2.) Entrepreneurial and Cooperative Development;
3. Continuing Education/Non−Traditional Education Program; 4.) Advocacy;
5.) Capability Building Program; and 6.) Spiritual and Values Formation. A year after, the office got one CIDA−funded project called Craft Village Development Program (CVDP) in partnership with the Development of Trade and Industry (DTI).

The school received its award as 4th placer among colleges and universities offering Library Science Program throughout the Philippines in the three−year assessment period 1995−1998 conducted by the PRC for the Professional Librarian’s Licensure Examination.
The pervasiveness of computers as essential tools in government and in business operations led the college to offer Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS) course in 1996. The school was granted recognition for BSCS by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) in 2000.

In 1997, the management fixed the date of the school feast every last Friday of June since it is movable in the church calendar. It is also decided to move the date of the foundation from February 14 to September 30 every year to coincide with the foundation of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart.
 
On the other hand, ICSD made an outstanding performance in Craft Village Development Program (CVDP) which was established by the Provincial Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Development Council as Davao del Sur SME Center in 2001. Furthermore, starting 2002, ICSD became the service provider of the Department of Education and the government of Australia on Basic Education Assistance for Mindanao (BEAM) projects, namely: Lumads Integrated Functional Education (LIFE), Harnessing Opportunities for Muslim Education (HOME) and Providing Educational Access for Cultural Enhancement (PEACE).

In 2002, Cor Jesu College gained another national recognition when it received an award as 7th placer nationwide for its passing percentage in the November 2002 Professional Librarians’ Board Examination. The award was given by the Professional Regulation Commission (PRC).
In response to organizational needs, Cor Jesu College was re−structured in 2004−2005 paving the way for the creation of the offices of the Vice Presidents for Academic and Administrative Affairs, the integration of the Institute of Vocational Technology (formerly Vocational Technology), with the Engineering Division, and the fusion of the Humanities and Social Science Divisions with the Teacher Education Division. This was done after the charism seminar−workshops which were the prelude to a reformation of the new vision and mission statements of the school. Organizational Development (OD) and Appreciative Inquiry (AI) sessions were conducted to make a five−year strategic plan in preparation for the Golden Jubilee of the Institute in 2009.

Furthermore in 2005, Cor Jesu College offered Practical Nursing− a TESDA short course, Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS) and Sunday College Program. In response to the demands, the school also applied to offer Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN).

The school received a distinctive recognition in 2006 when the Civil Engineering Program ranked number 11 in the passing percentage of licensure examination for Civil Engineers among the 170 engineering schools with 10−25 examinees nationwide conducted by PRC in May 2006. In the
 
same month, the Accountancy Program ranked number 8 in the passing percentage of board examination for Certified Public Accountants among the 70 schools with 10−25 examinees. A Cor Jesian also made it to the Top 20 ranking.
In the same year, the College Department applied for four (4) new collegiate programs, namely: Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, Bachelor of Science in Information Management, Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering, and Bachelor of Science in Electronics Communication.

The Board of Trustees appointed Bro. Edgardo S. Escuril, SC as president in 2007. He initiated the revision of the Vision, Mission and Goals of school. He also started the crafting of Five (5) Year Strategic Plan and the construction of the buildings of the Basic Education Department.
The Golden Jubilee of the school’s foundation was celebrated in 2009 highlighted by a stage play entitled the Golden Dream on September 30, 2009. In the same year, Bachelor of Science in Accounting Technology (BSAcT), Bachelor of Science in Hotel Restaurant Management (BSHRM), and Bachelor of Science in Midwifery (BSW) were offered.

Bro. Ellakim P. Sosmena, SC succeeded Bro. Escuril as president of the school in 2010. The Graduate School offered Master of Arts in Nursing and Master of Nursing in consortium with Ateneo de Davao University (ADDU). However, it was short live due to financial viability. In the same year, Bachelor of Science in Criminology, Driving NC II and Shield Metal Arc Welding (SMAW) NC II were offered. The new buildings of the Basic Education Department were occupied.
The ICSD became a foundation in 2010 and was renamed Cor Jesu College−Bro. Polycarp Institute for Community Development Foundation initiated by Ms. Donabelle Celebrado, MDE as Director. It received several awards: first runner−up in the DepEd’s National Literacy contest in 2010, first runner−up in the CHED Best Community Engagement Program in Region IX in 2011, first place (Regional Level) and twice first runner ups (National Level) in the DepEd’s National Literacy Contest in 2011 and 2013 respectively.
 
In 2012, Cor Jesu College Law School joined its first−ever inter−law school competition−−− the ICRC IHL National Moot Court Competition and reached the quarterfinals. The team was composed of Eliezer Sayson Jr., Freddie Baynosa II, and Dianne Bay H. Grado. Law Students Euangeli Doromal (2nd runner−up) and Charlen Suedad (7th place) also won in the Philippine Association of Law Schools (PALS) National Essay−writing Competition. In 2013, Cor Jesu College Law School emerged as the Champion in the CVC Law Debates aired on national TV through ANC. The team composed of Julius Frencie Rizada, lan DJ Gencianeo, and Diana Jane Sorongon battled and won against former CVC champion Ateneo de Davao University (elimination round), national moot court champion Silliman University (quarter−finals), then defending champion University of San Carlos (semi−finals), and De La Salle University (Final Round). These achievements took place during the time of Atty. Israelito P. Torreon, LLM, the law School dean from June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2016.
Another feather was added in the cap of the CJC Law Debating Club during the deanship of Atty. Genevieve Marie Dolores Brandares−Paulino when the team of Glemarie Damalerio, Kim Lorenzo Calatrava, Adonis Flores, Jr., Paolo Javier, Jemimah Pearl D’ Lonsod, and Robee Camille Desabelle clinched the championship of the V & A Square Off: The V & A Law Debates Season 18 versus the University of San Jose− Recoletos on December 2018 while the team of Aianna Bianca Brao, June Dianne Nadela, and Ghieft Gaca Anima was First Runner−up in the 1st ALSP Mindanao Debate versus Arellano University on October 2021.

In 2012 the Basic Education Department was granted level I PAASCU accreditation with Dr. Kirt Anthony Diaz as principal. The High School Socialized Program was offered. As the College Department started to phase out the Sunday College Program, it also offered the College Socialized Program. Electrical Installation Maintenance NC II, Computer Hardware Servicing NC II and Housekeeping NC II were accredited by TESDA and offered in June 2014 with Engr. Wayne Manabat as Program Head of the Vocational Technology Institute.

With the full implementation of the Five−Year Strategic Plan, the school constructed a four (4) story building named after Fr. Andre Coindre, the
 
founder of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart and was fully operational in 2013. It also renovated the Bro Bouley Building, Bro. Polycarp Building and the College Canteen. It provided concrete road network with drainage system around the campus. The Management Information System and the CCTV on campus were installed.
The concrete construction of the campus road network was fully completed, as well as the renovation of a three−storey Bro. Bouley Building and college canteen was ready for use in 2014. Inside the newly−renovated building were new features of offices and classrooms of the Engineering Department and a two−floor−state−of−the−art college library. All these innovations and achievements paved way for Cor Jesu College to be granted a Deregulated Status by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) in 2019.
But Cor Jesu College was never without mishaps. The school has been challenged during turbulent times, like the tragic three consecutive strong earthquakes in October and November 2019 that turned most of its state−of− the−art facilities into rubbles, except for the images of the Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mother Mary that were left standing still in the lobbies of Coindre and Norbert buildings, respectively.

Despite the loss, the school administration, faculty, and the whole community remained steadfast and firm to continue with their mission. So, just like the proverbial phoenix, Cor Jesu College rose up from the ashes and rubbles of destruction as Jesus Christ Himself defeated death in His resurrection.
Inspirationally, some 5th year engineering students with the supervision of their Dean, Engr. Jonas Placer, conceptualized a design for a one−story 20− provisional classrooms, targeting a 20−day challenge to culminate in the month of December 2019. Several engineering alumni participated in the challenge as contractors, consultants, and builders.

Other friends came over to express empathy and help in any way – the local government officials, the superiors of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart from abroad, General Counsel of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart from Rome, Italy headed by the Superior General Bro. Mark Hilton, SC, the US
 
Provincial Council led by the Provincial Superior Bro. Ronald Hingle, SC, the US Province Schools, the CJC alumni here and abroad, and the Consul General Li Lin of the Consulate General of the People’s Republic of China in Davao, who handed in ₱7.3 million, a donation from the People’s Republic of China.
Eventually, the provisional classrooms were inaugurated just right for the resumption of classes in January 2020. But in School Year 2020−2021, as the school returned to normal operations, another tragedy came into place in March – the lockdown due to the COVID 19 pandemic, making educational institutions like Cor Jesu re−invent its instructional modality. At the outset of the new normal, as Cor Jesu continued to face and responded to the demands and challenges of difficult times, it kept its foundation stronger, firmer and more resilient…

Looking back… with God’s abounding Grace – a revelation of God’s love amidst trials, challenges, and tribulations, Cor Jesu College has been taking pride on the achievements of its graduates in many different board examinations given by the Philippine Regulation Commission (PRC).

In the 1989 Board Exam for Midwifery, Elsa Butac ranked 13th while Ma. Corazon O. Bago made it to Top 16; and in Engineering, Maribel Monteza ranked 7th in November 1989, Hilario Alviar capped the Top 1 in 1995, and Nerrie Cisneros made it to the Top 10 in 1999.

The 21st Century is a great promise for Cor Jesu College as Niezl C. Delica made it to the Top 18 in the 2006 Certified Public Accountant (CPA) Licensure Examination, Marjorie T. Jorillo notched the number 4 slot in Licensure Examination for Librarians on April 2016, Kimjames Manalo ranked 2nd in the CPA Licensure Examination on May 2016, and Lee Robin Bura−ay grabbed the 9th place in the Criminologist Examination on December 2017.

On the other hand, Charlene Ararao made a debut for the Licensure Examination for Teachers (LET) as she ranked 6th on September 2016 while Cleford Jay Bacan followed suit as Top 7 on March 2018. Moreover, eight (8) more topnotchers made it to the September 2018 LET. They were Rhodel Christian G. Itang, Top 5; Risandro G. Namoc Jr., Top 6; Johnryl B. Garzon, Top
 
8; Dorena Criszel R. Aldaya and Agan Mark Villasan, Top 9; and Janine Marie Abregana, Chares Mae A. Ramos, and Justine Daphnie Salvacion, Top 10.

The year 2019 was also a season of achievements as Fritz Jaidel P. Dominice placed 9th in the Licensure Examination for Psychometrician on October. Meanwhile, in the LET−on September, Lyndon Jay V. Sulit ranked 3rd and Aye Brant Bueno placed 8th.
Moreover, the pandemic did not hamper the Cor Jesu College examinees to make it in the Top 10 as Ferdinand Angelo Revilla clinched the Top 9 in the LET released on June 2022 with a 100% school passing percentage.

Blessings kept pouring in as Cor Jesu College received the Institution Resiliency Award in 2021 by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Outstanding HEI for the Covid−19 Vaccination Program in 2022 Also given by the CHED. In the same year Maribel C. Guerra, the director of the Brother Polycarp Foundation – Institute of Community Service was named Outstanding Professional Social Worker by the ASEAN Social Work Consortium−Philippines with the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
With optimism, Cor Jesu has ever been determined to continue its journey towards excellent and quality Catholic education. With its vision for a university status, it has been working for the diversification of its program offerings. In School Year 2020−2021, new programs like the Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology, Bachelor of Technical−Vocational Teacher Education, and Bachelor in Public Administration were opened. Soon, two other programs, namely, Bachelor of Science in Biology and Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science have been set to be offered in SY 2022− 2023.

There is a time for everything… and the members of Cor Jesu College community have been learning to see God’s wise direction and providence in the contrasting experiences of their lives.
From the obscure walls of the past… to concrete edifices… to state−of− the−art facilities… to humble but elegant provisional classrooms… From a 1.4−
 
hectare campus, the school now occupies close to 20 hectares of land. Through its graduates, Cor Jesu College has been serving the country in various fields of human endeavor. Its dynamic linkages with non−government organizations and government agencies manifest its commitment as the school strives to fulfill its vision, mission, and goals. Cor Jesu College, in its drive to draw out the best in each one, looks at the future with greater passion and enthusiasm in raising the bar of excellence, building a stronger community, and responding to the call of being an apostle of compassion.
 
Vision, Mission, & Core Value of Cor Jesu College
VISION

Cor Jesu College, a premier Catholic educational Institution in Southern Mindanao, envisions fully transformed persons inspired by the Spirituality of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus and the charism of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart.
MISSION

We, the members of Cor Jesu College community, commit ourselves to:

•	advance a responsive and dynamic learning environment and to draw out the best in all;
•	nurture a compassionate community that journeys as one family at the heart of Christ; and

•	promote a responsible stewardship towards social transformation, progress and sustainable development.


CORE VALUE
The value of compassion, inspired by the Spirituality of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, is characterized by selfless and dedicated concern for others marked by loving respect and kindness.
 
Spirituality of Compassion

The spirituality of compassion springs from contemplating the pierced heart of Christ, the wellspring from which we draw our strength and the meaning of our Christian faith experience as we take part in the mission of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart in helping the young people who are poor and in need of hope.

It is the life force of the Cor Jesu Community united in the heart of Christ that fosters openness, mutual support, meekness and gentleness; it is the source of welcoming and nurturing every one, to progress in excellence by drawing out the best in all; and it is the vitality of every Cor Jesian to become committed apostles of compassion demonstrating concern for, and solidarity with the marginalized, the neglected, and the abandoned.

Characteristics:
Imitation of Jesus. It is encountering and experiencing Jesus in our lives as we enter into an intimate relationship with Him as well as a sense of harmonious connectiveness with other people leading to love, sacrifice, sharing, giving, comforting, modeling and teaching.
Source of life. It is God's life in us, a living in and savoring of the freshness of God's spirit that allows us to see the image of life and to enter into a way of life so we can give life.

Vulnerability and Availability. It is a lived experienced where we sincerely recognize and embrace our woundedness as persons as well as God's grace in our life. In this way, we share Christ's passion and mission as we make ourselves available to others and become channels of blessings to them.

Presence of Christ. It makes Christian education a ministry that offers Christ's attention and sensitivity to young people. It enhances young people's self− esteem by developing their full human potential to achieve their personal competence.

The Compassionate Heart of Jesus. It helps us recognize that Jesus loves us very much and wants us to love ourselves personally (to have compassion on ourselves). This puts us completely into the hands of the Father like well−beloved children in the well−beloved Son Jesus.
 
Philosophy of Education
Cor Jesu College Philosophy of Education is a transformative education anchored on the spirituality of compassion and belief in human potentials, structured on orderly and friendly discipline, fostered by trust and availability, and committed to academic excellence and evangelization.

Characteristics:
Transformative Education. It promotes a holistic approach of formation catering to the personal, social, emotional, and spiritual dimensions of the human person. It is a ministry of formation that is founded on three pillars of Cor Jesu College: Excellence, Community and Apostleship.

Spirituality of Compassion. It draws strength and inspiration from contemplating on the pierced heart of Christ.

Belief in Human Potentials. It recognizes and accepts the uniqueness and capacities of individuals.
Orderly and Friendly Discipline. It fosters a kind of discipline that is firm yet gentle.

Trust. It builds relationships in the spirit of openness and mutual support through the pedagogy of trust.

Availability. It calls for one's willingness to listen and journey with others.
Academic Excellence. It advances the dynamic interplay of instruction, research and publication, production, and community engagement.

Evangelization. It advocates gospel values unequivocally through prayer, reflections, community immersions and integration of Catholic social teachings to give them the knowledge and love of God and to prepare them for life.
 
Philosophy of Management
CJC’s philosophy of management believes in genuine witnessing through collaborative working relationship, recognizes the goodness and potential of each person, creates an ordered and structured environment and commits itself to the realization of the shared vision−mission. It addresses the concerns and welfare of the people entrusted to its care.

Characteristics:
Collaborative Working Relationship
•	Recognizes the capability and talents of the members of the community
•	Shares expertise, skills and techniques that will lead to further professional development and increased student achievement – the essence of working as a community.
Belief in the Goodness and Potential of the Person
•	Provides each employee the opportunity for holistic growth and development
•	Designs and implements a formation program for leaders to enhance their leadership and managerial skills.
•	Designs formation efforts to enhance the employee’s understanding
of their role in the religious and educational mission of the school.
•	Assists the teachers in the development of pedagogical techniques and attitudes consistent with philosophy of the school.
•	Supervises and evaluates employees to ensure that the goals of the school are met and their needs are identified and addressed.

Ordered and Structured Working Environment
•	Creates a community that nurtures love and mutual respect.
•	Develops a sense of self−discipline and respect for the dignity of the individual based on mutual trust and cooperation.
•	Ensures that each one takes responsibility for maintaining a clean and orderly school environment.
 
Commitment a Shared Vision/Mission
•	Ensures that each employee understands and appreciates the vision and mission of Cor Jesu College and takes part in its realization.
•	Makes known the policies and regulations for the employees to observe and implement.
•	Aligns all activities with the goals and objectives of the school. Makes decision in a consultative and participatory manner, particularly on matters that concern the employees.
 
The Three Pillars of Cor Jesu College: Excellence, Community & Apostleship

EXCELLENCE
As a leading educational institution in Sothern Mindanao, Cor Jesu College, guided by the principle of excellence as exemplified by her founders, continues to work hard in achieving excellence and in drawing out the best in all.


COMMUNITY
Cor Jesu College, as a school of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart, is also a community of faith that journeys as one family united at the Heart of the Christ.


APOSTLESHIP
Cor Jesu College is forming evangelized disciples leading to become evangelizing apostles. Thus, all the members of the school are sent on mission as apostles of compassion to those in need, especially the young who are poor and in need of hope.
 
Seal of Cor Jesu College
The seal of Cor Jesu College is composed of two circles where the name and address of the school are engraved. The Coat of Arms of the Institute of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart is found within the inner circle. It is composed of a French shield bearing, on a gold field, a burning heart encircled by crown of thorns surmounted by a black Latin cross.  From a gaping
wound, drops of blood fall upon the northern segment of the terrestrial globe showing the coasts of France and America with the Atlantic Ocean in between. The scroll is in royal blue with a gold border and carries the motto in letters of gold. Heart, blood, thorns, flames, land and ocean: all are in natural colors.
Symbolic Meaning
The two parallel circles that surround the Coat of Arms of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart, where the name Cor Jesu College and its address are engraved, symbolize the unending love of God to humanity. The French shield has been chosen because the Institute was founded in France. The Heart of Jesus placed in the center is designed as Jesus Himself presented it to St. Margaret Mary when He appeared to her. It reveals the intensity of His love for humankind that led Him to suffer His passion and death on the cross for the redemption of the world (crown of thorns, cross, wound). It reveals also His great desire for this love to spread among the people (fire). The drops of blood symbolize the sacraments through which the Heart of Jesus brings His love to humanity. The northern hemisphere reminds us that Venerable Bro. Polycarp, eager to spread the love of Jesus to other nations, sent Brothers from France to America as early as 1847. The field or background in gold speaks of the riches of the spirituality of the Sacred Heart. The motto in Latin, “Ametur Cor Jesu”, was adopted by the Institute in 1892. It is translated in English: “Loved be the Heart of Jesus” or “May the Heart of Jesus be Loved.” The Latin cross and the Latin motto express the belongingness of the Institute to the Roman Catholic Church.
 
SECTION I.
Goals and Objectives of the Different Colleges
A.	GENERAL GOALS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE DIFFERENT COLLEGES

Founded on the Spirituality of Compassion, the College Departments is committed to the professionalization and formation of the human person. Thus, it aims to:
1.	Offer academic programs that meet local and global demands;
2.	Conduct developmental researches and productive−scholarship activities for a dynamic and responsive instruction;
3.	Engage in community engagement activities for capacity building and empowerment of poor communities;
4.	Provide a research and field−based instructions for a relevant and functional learning;
5.	Nurture a climate of compassionate community for personal, communitarian, and spiritual growth; and
6.	Send graduates to the field of works as God centered professionals and businessmen, responsible stewards of nature, agents for cultural preservation and promotion, and initiators of social transformation and sustainable development.

B.	SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES OF THE DIFFERENT COLLEGES

1.	COLLEGE OF EDUCATION ARTS AND SCIENCES (CEDAS)
The College of Education, Arts and Sciences (CEDAS) offers students relevant and meaningful curricular programs which allow them to develop knowledge, skills, competencies and values that assist them in responding responsibly and sensitively to the issues and challenges of the local, national, and global industry without compromising truth and justice.
 
1.1.	Teacher Education Program
This program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of their field of specialization and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning. A TED graduate should be able to:

a.	Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio− cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts;
b.	Demonstrate mastery of subject matter/discipline;
c.	Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies and delivery modes appropriate to specific learners and their environments;
d.	Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners;
e.	Apply skills in the developments and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices;
f.	Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing, and reporting learning processes and outcomes;
g.	Practice professional and ethical teaching standards sensitive to the local, national, and global realities; and
h.	Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field−based opportunities.
The programs under the TED are: Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in English, Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Mathematics, Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Science, Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Filipino, Bachelor of Physical Education, Bachelor of Elementary Education, and Bachelor of Early Childhood Education.
 
1.1.1.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English (BSEd
-	English)
This Program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of the English language and literature and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning. A graduate of BSEd (English) should be able to:

a.	Possess broad knowledge of language and literature for effective learning;
b.	Use English as a global language in a multilingual context as it applies to the teaching of language and literature;
c.	Acquire extensive reading background in language, literature, and allied fields;
d.	Demonstrate proficiency in oral and written communication;
e.	Shows competence in employing innovative language and literature teaching approaches, methodologies, and strategies;
f.	Use technology in facilitating language learning and teaching;
g.	Inspire students and colleagues to lead relevant and transformative changes to improve learning and teaching language and literature; and
h.	Display skills and abilities to be reflective and research−oriented language and literature teacher.


1.1.2.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Mathematics (BSEd - Mathematics)
This program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of Mathematics and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning. A graduate of BSED (Mathematics) should be able to:
 
a.	Exhibit competence in mathematical concepts and procedures;
b.	Exhibit proficiency in relating mathematics to other curricular areas;
c.	Manifest meaningful and comprehensive pedagogical content knowledge of mathematics;
d.	Demonstrate competence in designing, constructing and utilizing different forms of assessment in mathematics;
e.	Demonstrate proficiency in problem−solving by solving and creating routine and non−routine problems with different levels of complexity; and
f.	Use effectively appropriate approaches as an opportunity for creative work, moments of enlightenment, discovery and gaining insights of the world.
1.1.3.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Sciences (BSEd - Science)
This program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of the Sciences and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning. A graduate of BSEd (Sciences) should be able to:

a.	Demonstrate	deep	understanding	of	scientific concepts and principles;
b.	Apply scientific inquiry in teaching and learning; and
c.	Utilize effective teaching and assessment methods.
1.1.4.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Filipino (BSEd - Filipino)
This program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of the Filipino language and literature and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing
 
pursuit of lifelong learning. A graduate of BSEd (Filipino) should be able to:
a.	Nagpapamalas ng mataasnaantas ng kaalaman sa pagtuturo ng wika at panitikang Filipino;
b.	Nagpapakita ng malawak at malalim napag−unawa at kaalaman sa ugnayan ng wika, kultura, at lipunan;
c.	Nakagagamit ng iba−t ibang kasanayan at kaalaman sa proseso ng patuturo−pagkatuto;
d.	Nagtataglay ng kaalaman hinggil sa usapin ng Kultural at linggwistikang dibersidad ng bansa;
e.	Nakapagdidisenyo ng malikhain, inobatibo at integratibong mga alternatibong dulog sa patututo at pagkatuto; at
f.	Nakagagawa ng pananaliksik ukol sa ikauunlad ng wikang Filipino bilang wikang panturo.


1.1.5.	Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)
This program outfits future graduates in building and cultivating relationships with colleagues, stakeholders, other professionals and learning communities, advocating for Physical Education (PEd), being role models of integrity and professional excellence, as well as leaders in the service of education. A graduate of BPEd should be able to:

a.	Apply scientific and evidence−based practices critical to the educational and learning processes;
b.	Demonstrate skillful performance in a variety of physical activities;
c.	Adapt performance to variety of physical activity settings;
d.	Critically examine the curriculum and program, and enhance them necessarily;
e.	Plan and implement safe and effective physical activity programs to address the needs of individual and groups in school and/or non−school settings;
f.	Monitor and evaluate physical activity programs in school and/or non−school settings;
g.	Use appropriate assessments in, and for student or client learning;
 
h.	Use information, media and technology in pedagogy and for lifelong learning;
i.	Demonstrate firm work/professional ethics;
j.	Cultivate solidarity by working and dealing with/relating to others harmoniously;
k.	Promote the advancement of the profession by making sense of and getting involved in current discourse that impact on the profession;
l.	Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional development;
m.	Communicate effectively with PE practitioners, other professional and stakeholders;
n.	Use oral, written, and technology formats deftly;
o.	Demonstrate service orientation in their respective professions;
p.	Possess qualifications for various types of employment and participate in development activities and public discourse, particularly in response to the needs of the communities they serve; and
q.	Contribute to the generation of new knowledge by participating in various research and developmental projects.
1.1.6.	Bachelor of Early Childhood Education
This program provides students with fundamental understanding and application of the principles of early childhood care and education, as well as experience in the application of these principles. This program also aims to educate individuals to be competent early childhood practitioners working with children from 0−8 years old in various early childhood settings (home, community, school, and workplace). It is aligned with the National Early Learning Framework (NELF), the National Competency−Based Teacher Standards (NCBTS 2017) and the first key stage which is K to 3. A graduate of BECEd should be able to:

a.	Demonstrate high level of content and pedagogical knowledge;
b.	Demonstrate appreciation for diversity;
 
c.	Manifest collaborative skills;
d.	Demonstrate innovative thinking;
e.	Possess critical and problem−solving skills;
f.	Advocate for children’s rights, equity, community,
nationalism, and democratic ideas;
g.	Pursue lifelong learning;
h.	Manifest a selfless and dedicated love and concern for the learners that is inspired and guided by the spirituality of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus; and
i.	Demonstrate the value of excellence, compassion, and apostleship in a multi−cultural learning environment.

1.2.	Arts and Sciences Program
Graduates of this program are in demand in fields that require effective use of the English language to realize specific goals. Career opportunities include academic and scholarly work such as teaching and research, business and industry jobs such as public relations, advertising and documentation, and media and publishing such as writing, translating and editing, and government and diplomatic service.

Moreover, the study of literature involves training in a range of skills, including advanced communicative competence, effective strategies in rhetoric and research, and modes of literacy that provide access to macro/micro skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening, interpretation and critical thinking) and integrated/integrative competencies (problem solving, independent study, research, creativity/innovation, teamwork, appreciation of different perspectives, intellectual flexibility, inter−cultural/linguistic adaptability).

Furthermore, the College offers the Criminology program which is envisioned as significant educational institution actively and continually involved in producing graduates who have the knowledge, skills, attitudes and values in addressing the problems of criminality in the country and the character and competence to meet the challenges of globalization in the field of criminology.
Further still, Psychology as a discipline and professional practice contributes to national development through basic and applied
 
research and interventions aimed at solving problems and promoting optimal development and functioning at the individual, family, group, organizations/institutions, community and national levels.
The programs under the Arts and Sciences Programs are AB English Language Studies, BS in Mathematics, BS in Psychology, BS in Criminology.
1.2.1.	Bachelor of Science in Psychology
Graduates of the BS in Psychology program could be licensed psychometricians or work in the academe, in HR, research. Graduates may also pursue careers in medicine, law, management, etc. With further specialized training, graduates of this program may pursue specializations in Psychology such as clinical, counseling, developmental, educational, social, industrial/organizational, etc.. A graduate of the BSP should be able to:
a.	Demonstrate the capability to discuss and analyze the major theories and concepts in Psychology (knowledge in Psychology);
b.	Demonstrate and apply the methods of psychological inquiry in building knowledge on local culture and context (Psychological research);
c.	Demonstrate and apply psychological theories and methods in personal and professional setting (application of Psychology);
d.	Demonstrate capability for self−reflection and dependent learning in graduate education or in a professional context (independent learning);
e.	Demonstrate professional and ethical behaviors in research and practice in Psychology;
f.	Demonstrate harmonious international relationship with colleagues, clients and others (interpersonal skills) in diverse cultural setting;
g.	Demonstrate the ability to conduct psychological assessments and evaluation (Psychological assessment);
h.	Demonstrate effective skills and technical knowledge in clinical assessment, human resource management,
 
school counseling and teaching the practical application of psychological theories and principles in the clinical, industry and school setting (application of psychological skills and technical knowledge); and
i.	Demonstrate capability in doing scientific researches which findings are used for community development (application of researches in the community).
1.2.2.	Bachelor of Science in Criminology
The field of criminology is the study of crime and the various agencies of justice as they operate and react to crime, criminals and victims. It aims to provide the community with professionally competent and morally upright graduates who can deliver efficient and effective services in crime prevention, crime detection and investigation, law enforcement, public safety, custody and rehabilitation of offenders, criminal research among others. A graduate of BSC should be able to:

a.	Conduct criminological research on crimes, crime causation, victims and offenders to include deviant behavior;
b.	Internalize the concepts of human rights and the victim welfare;
c.	Demonstrate competence and broad understanding in law enforcement administration, public safety and criminal justice;
d.	Utilize criminalistics or forensic science in the investigation and detection of crime;
e.	Apply the principles and jurisprudence of criminal law, evidence and criminal procedure; and
f.	Ensure offenders rehabilitation, welfare, development, and re−integration to the community.
1.2.3.	Bachelor of Arts in English Language Studies
Global communication in the twenty−first century is made possible by the use of a language understood by all. That language is English, the medium used in the pursuit of knowledge, the advancement of science and technology, and the development of business and industry. It gives humankind access to the infinite resources of the internet
 
and thus enables countries to work together to achieve their common goals. The courses in the program are designed to integrate theory and practice to prepare the students for effective communication in English in diverse contexts and situations. A graduate of ABE should be able to:
a.	Articulate a comprehensive and contextualized view of the English language system and development;
b.	Communicate in English (both oral and written) fluently, accurately, and creatively in diverse social, cultural, academic, and professional settings;
c.	Facilitate English language learning in diverse social, cultural, academic, and professional settings;
d.	Participate effectively in oral communication situations where language systems (phonological, morphological, syntactic, semantic) vary; and
e.	Produce well−written texts for various academic and professional purposes.
1.2.4.	Bachelor of Science in Mathematics
This program equips graduates with enhanced mathematical and critical thinking skills. Graduates are expected to have developed deeper appreciation and understanding of the importance of mathematics in history and the modern world. They will be able to do research or perform jobs that require analytical thinking and quantitative skills.
The program provides students with substantial exposure to the breadth and depth of mathematics, from classical to contemporary, and from theoretical to applied. The curriculum covers foundational course in core areas of mathematics/applied mathematics as well as advanced courses that will help prepare graduates to pursue higher studies or work in a variety of fields. A graduate of BSM should be able to:
 
a.	Gain mastery in the core areas of mathematics: algebra, analysis, and geometry;
b.	Demonstrate skills in pattern recognition, generalization, abstraction, critical analysis, synthesis, problem−solving and rigorous argument;
c.	Develop an enhanced perception of the vitality and importance of mathematics in the modern world including inter−relationships within math and its connection to other disciplines;
d.	Appreciate the concept and role of proof and reasoning and demonstrate knowledge in reading and writing mathematical proofs;
e.	Make and evaluate mathematical conjectures and arguments and validate their own mathematical thinking; and
f.	Communicate mathematical ideas orally and in writing using clear and precise language.
2.	COLLEGE OF ACCOUNTANCY, BUSINESS, AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP (CABE)

The College of Accountancy, Business and Entrepreneurship is the school that offers courses in the field of business and management. A CABE graduate should be able to:
a.	Describe the basic functions of management such as planning, organizing, leading and controlling;
b.	Identify and describe the basic concepts that underlie each of the functional areas of business (marketing, finance, human resources management, production, and operations management, information technology, and strategic management) and employ these concepts in various business situations;
c.	Select the proper decision−making tools to critically, analytically and creatively solve problems and drive results.
d.	Express clearly and communicate effectively with stakeholders both in oral and written forms;
e.	Apply information and communication technology (ICT) skills as required by the business environment;
f.	Work effectively with other stakeholders and manage conflict in the workplace;
 
g.	Organize and lead groups to plan and implement business related activities;
h.	Demonstrate corporate citizenship and social responsibility; and
i.	Exercise high personal moral and ethical standards.
The following programs under this college are: Bachelor of Science in Accountancy, Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System, Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting, Bachelor of Science in Business Administration majors in Financial Management, Human Resource Development Management, and Marketing Management, and Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management.

2.1.	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BSA)
The Accountancy program provides general accounting education to students wanting to pursue a professional career in Accountancy in general and in Public Accounting in particular. Further, this is the program that complies with the latest competency framework for professional accountants issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) through their International Education Standards. Thus, this qualifies the graduate of this program to take assessments leading to certifications in Accountancy given by the Professional Regulatory Commission − Board of Accountancy (PRC−BOA) and other global professional Accountancy organizations. A graduate of BS in Accountancy should be able to:
2.1.1.	Resolve business issues and problems, with a global and strategic perspective using knowledge and technical proficiency in the areas of financial accounting and reporting, cost accounting and management, accounting and control, taxation, and accounting information systems;
2.1.2.	Conduct accountancy research through independent studies of relevant literature and appropriate use of accounting theory and methodologies;
2.1.3.	Employ technology as a business tool in capturing financial and non−financial information, generating reports and making decisions;
2.1.4.	Apply knowledge and skills to successfully respond to various types of assessments; and (including professional licensure and certifications);
 
2.1.5.	Confidently maintain a commitment to good corporate citizenship, social responsibility and ethical practice in performing functions as an accountant; and
2.1.6.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.

2.2.	Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System (BSAIS) The Accounting Information System program provides general accounting education to students wanting to pursue a professional career in Accounting Information System. Further, this is the program that complies with the latest competency framework for professional accountants issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) through their International Education Standards. Thus, this qualifies the graduate of this program to take assessments leading to certifications in Accounting Information System given by global professional Accounting Information System organizations. A graduate of BS in Accounting Information System should be able to:

2.2.1.	Resolve business issues and problems, with a global and strategic perspective using knowledge and technical proficiency in the areas of financial accounting and reporting, cost accounting and management, accounting and control, taxation, and accounting information systems;
2.2.2.	Conduct accountancy research through independent studies of relevant literature and appropriate use of accounting theory and methodologies;
2.2.3.	Employ technology as a business tool in capturing financial and non−financial information, generating reports and making decisions;
2.2.4.	Apply knowledge and skills to successfully respond to various types of assessments; and (including professional licensure and certifications);
2.2.5.	Confidently maintain a commitment to good corporate citizenship, social responsibility and ethical practice in performing functions as an accountant; and
 
2.2.6.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.
2.3.	Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting (BSMA)
The Management Accounting program provides general accounting education to students wanting to pursue a professional career in management accounting. Further, this is the program that complies with the latest competency framework for professional accountants issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) through their International Education Standards. Thus, this qualifies the graduate of this program to take assessments leading to certifications in management accounting given by global professional management accounting organizations. A graduate of BS in Management Accounting should be able to:

2.3.1.	Resolve business issues and problems, with a global and strategic perspective using knowledge and technical proficiency in the areas of financial accounting and reporting, cost accounting and management, accounting and control, taxation, and accounting information systems;
2.3.2.	Conduct accountancy research through independent studies of relevant literature and appropriate use of accounting theory and methodologies;
2.3.3.	Employ technology as a business tool in capturing financial and non−financial information, generating reports and making decisions;
2.3.4.	Apply knowledge and skills to successfully respond to various types of assessments; and (including professional licensure and certifications);
2.3.5.	Confidently maintain a commitment to good corporate citizenship, social responsibility and ethical practice in performing functions as an accountant; and
2.3.6.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.
 
2.4.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA)
The Business Administration program utilizes an integrated approach to study the interrelationships among the different functional areas of business and examine how the effective orchestration of these different components of business operations can lead to organizational success. At the end of the program, students are expected to appreciate the economic, social, technological as well as legal environments within which all businesses must operate, and possess the basic business knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to effectively lead an organization and achieve the desired results. A graduate of BS in Business Administration should be able to:
2.4.1.	Analyze	the	business environment	for	strategic direction;
2.4.2.	Prepare operational plans;
2.4.3.	Innovate business ideas based on emerging industry;
2.4.4.	Manage a strategic business unit for economic sustainability.
2.4.5.	Conduct business research; and
2.4.6.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.
2.5.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Financial Management (FM)
The Financial Management program prepares the graduates for various careers in financial management as well as in related fields, including but not limited to, corporate finance, investment management, banking, credit, trust operations, insurance, foreign currency markets, money markets, capital markets, and other financial securities markets. The curriculum provides the graduate with knowledge on financial institutions and technical skills based on established financial theories, methodologies, and various analytical tools. It also promotes an outlook that is based primarily on ethics, market integrity, regulations, good governance and competitive global perspective, necessary for effective financial decision−making.
 
2.6.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Human Resource Development Management (HRDM)
The Human Resource Development Management program prepares the graduate for a career in the Human Resource Department of any organization, handling the many diverse human capital requirements of the organization, including recruitment, staffing, training and career development.
2.7.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (MM)
The Marketing Management program prepares the graduate for careers in marketing, market research, advertising and public relations. The curriculum provides the graduate with both technical skills and competencies required in the field, but also the flexible mindset that is necessary to stay competitive in a constantly changing business environment.
2.8.	Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM)
The Hospitality Management program will equip students with competencies that are needed to execute operational tasks and management functions in food production (culinary), accommodation, food and beverage service, tourism planning and product development, events planning, transportation services, travel and tour operations and other emerging sectors of hospitality and tourism industry. A graduate of BS in Hospitality Management should be able to:

2.8.1.	Produce food products and services complying with enterprise standards;
2.8.2.	Apply management skills in F & B service and operations;
2.8.3.	Perform and provide full guest cycle services for front office;
2.8.4.	Perform and maintain various housekeeping services for guest and facility operations;
2.8.5.	Plan and implement a risk management program to provide a safe and secure workplace;
2.8.6.	Provide food & beverage service and manage the operation seamlessly based on industry standards; and
 
2.8.7.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves;
3.	COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING (CoE)

The College of Engineering commits itself to the development of the potential of each individual that they may be able to respond to the growing need for highly competent engineers capable of undertaking wider responsibilities for optimum development of resources and utilization of the forces of nature in the production of facilities for the benefit of mankind. Graduates of engineering programs may be able to participate in the generation of new knowledge or in research and development projects, and are equipped with the competencies to support “global, national, regional and local development plans”; and preserve and promote the Filipino historical and cultural heritage.

Specifically, the College of Engineering aims to:
a.	Maintain a good curricular program that catered to the formation needs of the students;
b.	Provide effective instruction in the discipline of mathenatics and natural sciences with emphasis on practical applications and judgements in order to develop ways to economically utilize the materials and forces of nature for the benefit of mankind;
c.	Update regularly the methods and concepts for analysis and design of different engineering systems;
d.	Familiarize the students with experimental methods and scientific investigations for a better understanding of the engineering concepts;
e.	Involve the students in community outreach and industry immersion programs for application of their knowledge;
f.	Promote the integration of environmental and socio−cultural concerns in the planning, design and implementation of all engineering systems;
g.	Provide avenue for professional growth and develop the research capabilities of the teaching personnel; and
h.	Integrate in the curriculum the aspects of spiritual growth and professionalism.
 
3.1.	BS in Civil Engineering (BSCE)
This program leads to a profession that applies the basic principles of science in conjunction with mathematical and computational tools to solve problems associated with developing and sustaining civilized life on our planet. A graduate of the Civil Engineering program has the ability to:
3.1.1.	provide civil engineering solutions to problems in accordance to laws and industry standards;
3.1.2.	articulate expertise to individuals and teams of diverse cultural and interdisciplinary backgrounds that work together in a dynamic environment; and
3.1.3.	integrate life−long learning in the practice of civil engineering discipline.
3.2.	BS in Electronics Engineering (BSECE)
This program is a branch of engineering that integrates available and emerging technologies with knowledge of mathematics, natural, social and applied science to conceptualize, design, and implement new, improved, or innovative electronic, computer and communication systems, devices, goods, services and processes. A graduate of the Electronics Engineering program should be able to:

3.2.1.	Impart essential knowledge, elements, tools and skills necessary to become successful Electronic Engineers;
3.2.2.	Develop the ability to recognize, formulate and solve electronics engineering problems; and
3.2.3.	Contribute a meaningful experience in research and design that are relevant to the electronics−engineering field.

3.3.	BS in Computer Engineering (BSCpE)
This program is a branch of engineering that focuses in the programming languages and automation with knowledge of mathematics, natural, social and applied science to conceptualize, design, and implement new, improved, or innovative electronic, computer and communication systems, devices, goods, services and processes. A graduate of the Computer Engineering program should be able to:
3.3.1.	Impart essential knowledge, elements, tools and skills necessary to become successful Computer Engineers;
 
3.3.2.	Develop the ability to recognize, formulate and solve Programming and Computer Engineering problems; and
3.3.3.	Contribute a meaningful experience in research and design that are relevant to the Computer−engineering field.

4.	COLLEGE OF COMPUTING AND INFORMATION SCIENCES (CCIS)

The College of Computing and Information Sciences (CCIS) commits itself to offering programs that meet local and global demands. It aims to produce professionals who are God−centered, committed to excellence, exercising appropriate values, lifelong and independent learners, and initiators of social transformation and sustainable development.

4.1.	Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS)
This is a program that includes the study of computing concepts and theories, algorithmic foundations and new developments in computing. The program prepares students to design and create algorithmically complex software and develop new and effective algorithms for solving computing problems.
A Computer Science graduate prepares to become an IT professional and researcher, proficient in designing and developing computing solutions, specifically in terms of:
4.1.1.	Application of fundamental computer concepts as problem solving skills;
4.1.2.	Design and implementation of computer−based solutions;
4.1.3.	Recognition and application of technical standards and interoperability;
4.1.4.	Research in Computer Science related areas; and
4.1.5.	Integration of knowledge learned in different areas of Computer Science.
4.2.	Bachelor of Science in Information Technology Program (BSIT) This program includes the study of the utilization of both hardware and software technologies involving planning, installing, customizing, operating, managing and administering, and maintaining information technology infrastructure that provides computing solutions to address the needs of an organization.
 
The graduate of the Information Technology Program can become an IT professional, well versed in application, installation, operation, development, maintenance and administration, hardware installation operation and maintenance, specifically in terms of:
4.2.1.	A system analysis and design;
4.2.2.	Operation of databases, networks and multimedia system;
4.2.3.	Software integration, testing and documentation; and
4.2.4.	Systems management and administration.

4.3.	Bachelor in Library and Information Science (BLIS)
The ultimate objective of the Library and Information Science Program (BLIS) is to prepare students to their unique role in gathering, organizing and coordinating access to the best information sources for the knowledge−based organization they belong, as well as implementing standards for the ethical and appropriate use of information. A graduate of Library and Information Science program has the ability to:
4.3.1.	Develop knowledge, skills and proficiency for effective and efficient services in the library with emphasis in the development and competencies in the practice of the profession;
4.3.2.	Be proficient in the field of management, organization of information sources, information storage and retrieval, indexing and abstracting, building library collection and information sources and services applicable to various types of libraries and information centers;
4.3.3.	Imbibe in oneself the importance of the profession in our society, particularly to the academic, business, research and other knowledge−based organization engaged in the promotion, preservation and use of information sources;
4.3.4.	Develop professional competencies and practice the philosophy of librarianship and its significance for serving school, academic, public, special libraries and information centers;
4.3.5.	Develop their attitudes, skills, and values to enhance their personal competencies needed in the practice of the profession in a multicultural environment;
4.3.6.	Develop the proper character or traits needed to become a globally competitive efficient and effective librarian;
 
4.3.7.	Inculcate into the value system the importance of Information Technology for man’s progress and quest for infinite information; and
4.3.8.	Demonstrate an understanding of research techniques and methods of applying new knowledge as it becomes available.
5.	COLLEGE OF HEALTH SCIENCES (CHS)

The College of Health Sciences aims to produce competent and compassionate health care providers, whose skills, knowledge and attitude are globally competitive. Also, it aims to produce a health care provider who could epitomize Christian values and virtues in the practice of their profession. The College offers Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Bachelor of Science in Midwifery, Diploma in Midwifery, Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology, ad Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science.
5.1.	Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (BSN)
The BSN is a four−year degree program consisting of general education and professional courses. Professional courses are threaded through from first year thru fourth year with emphasis on the nursing concepts with corresponding Related Learning Experiences (RLE). The BSN program provides an intensive nursing practicum that will refine further the nursing competencies to ensure achievement of the BSN program outcomes required of an entry level nurse.

The BSN program aims to develop a professional nurse who is able to assume entry level positions in health facilities or community settings. The professional nurse is capable of providing safe, humane, quality and holistic care to individuals in varying age, gender and health−illness status; healthy or at−risk families; population groups; and community; singly or in collaboration with or other health care providers to promote health, prevent illness, restore health, alleviate suffering and provide end of life care. A Bachelor of Science in Nursing graduates shall:

5.1.1.	Apply knowledge of physical, social, natural and health sciences and humanities in the practice of nursing;
 
5.1.2.	Provide safe, appropriate and holistic care to individuals, families, population groups, and community utilizing nursing process;
5.1.3.	Apply guidelines and principles of evidence−based practice in the delivery of care;
5.1.4.	Practice nursing in accordance with existing laws, legal, ethical, and moral principles;
5.1.5.	Communicate effectively in speaking, writing and presenting using culturally−appropriate language;
5.1.6.	Report and document up−to−date client care accurately and comprehensively;
5.1.7.	Work effectively in collaboration with inter−, intra−, and multi−disciplinary and multi−cultural teams;
5.1.8.	Practice beginning management and leadership skills using systems approach in the delivery of client care;
5.1.9.	Conduct research with an experienced researcher;
5.1.10.	Engage in lifelong learning with a passion to keep current with national and global developments in general, and nursing and health developments in particular;
5.1.11.	Demonstrate responsible citizenship and pride in being a Filipino;
5.1.12.	Apply techno−intelligent care systems and processes in health care delivery;
5.1.13.	Adopt the nursing core values in the practice of the profession; and
5.1.14.	Apply entrepreneurial skills in the delivery of nursing care.

5.2.	Bachelor of Science in Midwifery (BSM)
The Bachelor of Science in Midwifery aims to develop higher level competencies of a midwife as a health care provider: educator, researcher, supervisor and health care facility manager/entrepreneur.

Specifically, this enables the graduates to give the necessary supervision, care and advice to high−risks parturient; execute emergency measures in the absence of medical practitioners; provide family planning services; provide Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) services; manage MCH clinics at the community level; facilitate community organizing and social mobilization for community development; engage in independent,  entrepreneurial  health  activities  including
 
management of primary health care facilities; implement/manage midwifery programs; perform other health related functions as may be deemed necessary by appropriate agency. A Four− year Midwifery graduates shall:

5.2.1.	Exercise legal principles and code of ethics in making personal and professional judgment;
5.2.2.	Utilizes Primary Health Care in the delivery of health care services in the community and promotes safe quality care;
5.2.3.	Establishes collaborative relationship with colleagues and other members of the team to enhance midwifery practice and other health care services;
5.2.4.	Promotes professional and personal growth and development
5.2.5.	Engages in health−related researches for the development of midwifery practice;
5.2.6.	Demonstrates management and leadership skills to provide safe and quality care for mother and child;
5.2.7.	Exhibit a God centered midwives, responsible stewards of environment, mediator for cultural preservation and promotion;
5.2.8.	Manages a community/village−based health facility/component of a health program or health service; and
5.2.9.	Utilizes appropriate mechanism for networking linkage building and referrals.

5.3.	Diploma in Midwifery
The Diploma in Midwifery aims to develop the knowledge, attitude and skills of first level midwives in the care of the girl− child, the adolescent, and the adult woman prior to, during, and following pregnancy. This prepares the midwives to give the necessary supervision, care and advice to women during pregnancy, labor and post−partum period; manage normal deliveries on her own responsibility and care for the child.
 
Specifically, graduates of the 2−year program are expected to perform primary health care services within the community (promotive and preventive care); counsel and educate women, family and community regarding family planning including preparation for parenthood/parenting; detect abnormal conditions in the mother and infant; procure specialized assistance as necessary (consultation or referral). The graduates of this program should be able to:

5.3.1.	Provide necessary supervision, care and advises to normal women during pregnancy, labor and puerperium;
5.3.2.	Performs primary health care services within the community.
5.3.3.	Participate in researches related to midwifery practice.;
5.3.4.	Work independently or collaboratively with other health team imbued with core values of Midwifery practice;
5.3.5.	Practice professionalism and Filipino values with respect to individual and cultural diversity;
5.3.6.	Participate in professional Continuing Education thru attending seminars and trainings locally and internationally; and
5.3.7.	Use effective communication skills, both in writing and speaking using culturally appropriate language;
5.4.	Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology (BSRT)

The Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology program aims to produce radiologic technologists who are imbued with 21st century skills and are competent to fulfill professional responsibilities in the following area: diagnostic and therapeutic imaging, radiation safety and protection, patient care, administration and management, education, research, entrepreneurship, and life−long learning. Graduates of BSRT shall:

5.4.1.	Apply scientific knowledge, technical skills, and the proper work attitude and values necessary for the practice of Radiologic Technology;
5.4.2.	Understand the scope of local and international professional ethical practice;
 
5.4.3.	Promote the value of pursuing life−long learning;
5.4.4.	Implement radiation safety and protection measures;
5.4.5.	Demonstrate compassionate patient care;
5.4.6.	Show	beginning	leadership,	management,	and entrepreneurial skills;
5.4.7.	Engage in academic and research activities; and
5.4.8.	Advocate love of country and service to the Filipino people.

5.5.	Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science (BSMLS)
The BS in Medical Laboratory Science program provides the students’ foundation in the fundamentals of medical laboratory science, scientific concepts and principles of the different laboratory analyses and determinations to develop skills in critically analyzing laboratory processes. It trains students to be globally competent and knowledgeable in the performance of laboratory test procedures and analyses which aids in the diagnosis, treatment of diseases and maintenance of health. The program also provides a profound training and updates on various laboratory screening and examinations, scientific research, instrumentations, and community related activities. The students are developed to become well−rounded medical laboratory scientists. Graduate of BSMLS shall:
5.5.1.	Demonstrate technical competence in the performance of clinical laboratory tests in aid of diagnosis, treatment, and management of diseases vis−à−vis biosafety and waste management;
5.5.2.	Demonstrate analytical and critical thinking skills in the workplace;
5.5.3.	Engage in the collection, analysis, and projection of health information for improving the health care management system;
5.5.4.	Demonstrate interpersonal skills, leadership qualities, and ethical practice of the profession;
5.5.5.	Apply research skills in relevant areas of Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Science practice;
5.5.6.	Participate in community−oriented activities.
5.5.7.	Engage in life−long learning activities; and
5.5.8.	Demonstrate effective teaching and communication skills.
 
6.	COLLEGE OF SPECIAL PROGRAMS (CSP)

The College of Special Programs (CSP) offers to deserving students who are working during the day however deserving and interested to pursue their baccalaureate degree during night time and weekends. The programs under the CSP are: Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS), Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd), Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BSBA−FM), Bachelor of Science of Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BSBA−MM), Bachelor of Science of Business Administration Major in Human Resource Development Management (BSBA−HRDM), Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim),Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS), Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in English (BSEd−E), Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Filipino (BSEd−Fil), Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM), Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT), Bachelor of Technical−Vocational Teacher Education Major in Automotive Technology (BTVTEd−AT), and Bachelor of Technical− Vocational Teacher Education Major in Food and Service Management (BTVTEd−FSM).
6.1.	Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS)
The ultimate objective of the Library and Information Science Program (BLIS) is to prepare students to their unique role in gathering, organizing and coordinating access to the best information sources for the knowledge−based organization they belong, as well as implementing standards for the ethical and appropriate use of information. A graduate of Library and Information Science program has the ability to:
6.1.1.	Develop knowledge, skills and proficiency for effective and efficient services in the library with emphasis in the development and competencies in the practice of the profession;
6.1.2.	Be proficient in the field of management, organization of information sources, information storage and retrieval, indexing and abstracting, building library collection and information sources and services applicable to various types of libraries and information centers;
6.1.3.	Imbibe in oneself the importance of the profession in our society, particularly to the academic, business, research
 
and other knowledge−based organization engaged in the promotion, preservation and use of information sources;
6.1.4.	Develop professional competencies and practice the philosophy of librarianship and its significance for serving school, academic, public, special libraries and information centers;
6.1.5.	Develop their attitudes, skills, and values to enhance their personal competencies needed in the practice of the profession in a multicultural environment;
6.1.6.	Develop the proper character or traits needed to become a globally competitive efficient and effective librarian;
6.1.7.	Inculcate into the value system the importance of Information Technology for man’s progress and quest for infinite information; and
6.1.8.	Demonstrate an understanding of research techniques and methods of applying new knowledge as it becomes available.
6.2.	Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)
This program outfits graduates in building and cultivating relationships with colleagues, stakeholders, other professionals and learning communities, advocating for Physical Education (PEd), being role models of integrity and professional excellence, as well as leaders in the service of education. A graduate of BPEd should be able to:

6.2.1.	Apply scientific and evidence−based practices critical to the educational and learning processes;
6.2.2.	Demonstrate skillful performance in a variety of physical activities;
6.2.3.	Adapt performance to variety of physical activity settings;
6.2.4.	Critically examine the curriculum and program, and enhance them necessarily;
6.2.5.	Plan and implement safe and effective physical activity programs to address the needs of individual and groups in school and/or non−school settings;
6.2.6.	Monitor and evaluate physical activity programs in school and/or non−school settings;
6.2.7.	Use appropriate assessments in, and for student or client learning;
 
6.2.8.	Use information, media and technology in pedagogy and for lifelong learning;
6.2.9.	Demonstrate firm work/professional ethics;
6.2.10.	Cultivate solidarity by working and dealing with/relating to others harmoniously;
6.2.11.	Promote the advancement of the profession by making sense of and getting involved in current discourse that impact on the profession;
6.2.12.	Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional development;
6.2.13.	Communicate effectively with PE practitioners, other professional and stakeholders;
6.2.14.	Use oral, written, and technology formats deftly;
6.2.15.	Demonstrate service orientation in their respective professions;
6.2.16.	Possess qualifications for various types of employment and participate in development activities and public discourse, particularly in response to the needs of the communities they serve; and
6.2.17.	Contribute to the generation of new knowledge by participating in various research and developmental projects.

6.3.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA)
The Business Administration program utilizes an integrated approach to study the interrelationships among the different functional areas of business and examine how the effective orchestration of these different components of business operations can lead to organizational success. At the end of the program, students are expected to appreciate the economic, social, technological as well as legal environments within which all business must operate, and possess the basic business knowledge, skills, values and attitudes to effectively lead an organization and achieve the desired results. A graduate of BS in Business Administration should be able to:
6.3.1.	Analyze the business environment for strategic direction.
6.3.2.	Prepare operational plans;
6.3.3.	Innovate business ideas based on emerging industry;
6.3.4.	Manage	a	strategic	business	unit	for	economic sustainability;
 
6.3.5.	Conduct business research; and
6.3.6.	Participate in various types of employment, development activities, and public discourses, particularly in response to the needs of the communities one serves.
6.4.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Financial Management (FM) The Financial Management program prepares the graduates for various careers in financial management as well as in related fields, including but not limited to, corporate finance, investment management, banking credit, trust operation, insurance, foreign currency markets, money markets, capital markets, and other financial securities markets. The curriculum provides the graduate with knowledge financial theories, methodologies, and various analytical tools. It also promotes an outlook that is based primarily on ethics, market integrity, regulations, good governance and competitive global perspective, necessary for effective financial decision−making.

6.5.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Marketing Management (MM)
The Marketing Management program prepares the graduate for careers in marketing, market research, advertising and public relations. The curriculum provides the graduate with both technical skills and competencies required in the field, but also the flexible mindset that is necessary to stay competitive in a constantly changing business environment.

6.6.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration major in Human Resource Development Management (HRDM).
The Human Resource Development Management program prepares the graduate for a career in the Human Resource Department of any organization, handling the many diverse human capital requirements of the organization, including recruitment, staffing, training and career development.

6.7.	Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM)
The Hospitality Management program will equip students with competencies that are needed to execute operational tasks and management functions in food production (culinary), accommodation, food and beverage service, tourism planning and product development, events planning, transportation services,
 
travel and tour operations and other emerging sectors of hospitality and tourism industry. A graduate of BS in Hospitality Management should be able to:
6.11.1.	Produce food products and services complying with enterprise standards;
6.11.2.	Apply management skills in F & B service and operations;
6.11.3.	Perform and provide full guest cycle services for front office;
6.11.4.	Perform and maintain various housekeeping services for guest and facility operations; and
6.11.5.	Plan and implement a risk management program to provide a safe and secure workplace;

6.8.	Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim)
The field of criminology is the study of crime and the various agencies of justice as they operate and react to crime, criminals and victims. It aims to provide the community with professionally competent and morally upright graduates who can deliver efficient and effective services in crime prevention, crime detection and investigation, law enforcement, public safety, custody and rehabilitation of offenders, criminal research among others. A graduate of BSC should be able to:

6.8.1.	Conduct criminological research on crimes, crime causation, victims and offenders to include deviant behavior;
6.8.2.	Internalize the concepts of human rights and the victim welfare;
6.8.3.	Demonstrate competence and broad understanding in law enforcement administration, public safety and criminal justice;
6.8.4.	Utilize criminalistics or forensic science in the investigation and detection of crime;
6.8.5.	Apply the principles and jurisprudence of criminal law, evidence and criminal procedure; and
6.8.6.	Ensure offenders rehabilitation, welfare, development, and re−integration to the community.
 
6.9.	Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS)
This is a program that includes the study of computing concepts and theories, algorithmic foundations and new developments in computing. The program prepares students to design and create algorithmically complex software and develop new and effective algorithms for solving computing problems. A Computer Science graduate prepares to become an IT professional and researcher, proficient in designing and developing computing solutions, specifically in terms of:

6.9.1.	Application of fundamental computer concepts as problem solving skills;
6.9.2.	Design and implementation of computer−based solutions;
6.9.3.	Recognition and application of technical standards and interoperability;
6.9.4.	Research in Computer Science related areas; and
6.9.5.	Integration of knowledge learned in different areas of Computer Science.

TEACHER EDUCATION PROGRAMS

This program prepares teachers to become effective synthesizers of knowledge and efficient promoters and facilitators of learning in the light of the English language and literature and abreast with pedagogical principles that would enable the learners to develop to the fullest their potentials concomitant to a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning. A graduate of Teacher Education Program should be able to:
6.10.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English (BSEd - English)
6.10.1.	Possess broad knowledge of language and literature for effective learning;
6.10.2.	Use English as a global language in a multilingual context as it applies to the teaching of language and literature;
6.10.3.	Acquire extensive reading background in language, literature, and allied fields;
6.10.4.	Demonstrate proficiency in oral and written communication;
 
6.10.5.	Shows competence in employing innovative language and literature teaching approaches, methodologies, and strategies;
6.10.6.	Use technology in facilitating language learning and teaching;
6.10.7.	Inspire student and colleagues to lead relevant and transformative changes to improve learning and teaching language and literature; and
6.10.8.	Display skills and abilities to be reflective and research− oriented language and literature teacher.

6.11.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Filipino (BSEd - Filipino)
6.11.1.	Nagpapamalas ng mataas na antas ng kaalaman sa pagtuturo ng wika at panitikang Filipino;
6.11.2.	Nagpapakita ng malawak at malalim na pag−unawa at kaalaman sa ugnayan ng wika, kultura, at lipunan;
6.11.3.	Nakagagamit ng iba−t ibang kasanayan at kaalaman sa proseso ng patuturo−pagkatuto;
6.11.4.	Nagtataglay ng kaalaman hinggil sa usapin ng Kultural at linggwistikang dibersidad ng bansa;
6.11.5.	Nakapagdidisenyo ng malikhain, inobatibo at integratibong mga alternatibong dulog sa patututo at pagkatuto; at
6.11.6.	Nakagagawa ng pananaliksik ukol sa ikauunlad ng wikang Filipino bilang wikang panturo;
6.12.	Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT).
The program prepares graduates to address various user needs involving the selection, development, application, integration and management of computing technologies within an organization. Moreover, BSIT graduates are expected to become globally competent, innovative, and socially and ethically responsible computing professionals engaged in life− long learning endeavors. They are capable of contributing to the country’s national development goals. Hence, they should have the ability to:
6.12.1.	Analyze complex problems, and identify and define the computing requirements needed to design an appropriate solution;
 
6.12.2.	Apply computing and other knowledge domains to address real−world problems;
6.12.3.	Design and develop computing solutions using a system−level perspective;
6.12.4.	Utilize modern computing tool;
6.12.5.	Articulate and discuss the latest developments in the specific field of practice;
6.12.6.	Effectively communicate orally and in writing using both English and Filipino;
6.12.7.	Work	effectively	and	independently	in	multi− disciplinary and multi−cultural teams;
6.12.8.	Act in recognition of professional, social, and ethical responsibly; and
6.12.9.	Preserve and promote “Filipino historical and cultural heritage”.

6.13.	Bachelor of Technical-Vocational Teacher Education (BTVTEd) BTVTEd program aims to develop knowledge, skills, and attitude necessary to prepare student to be a highly competent and motivated technical and vocational educator in Grade 9−10 TLE subjects, Senior High School Tech−Voc Livelihood Track subjects, TVET Training Courses, and Higher Education Technical and Education Courses. A graduate of BTVTEd should be able to:

a.	Effectively synthesize organized knowledge to allow analytical and critical thinking;
b.	Promote and facilitate efficiently and effectively learnings to enable learners to develop their potential to the fullest for a continuing pursuit of lifelong learning;
c.	be a committed humanist who has a clear understanding and appreciation of human ideals and values inspire learners to realize their potential;
d.	stand as a model teacher with high regard for learning imbued with proper work attitude and values as practiced in industry; and
e.	be able to Implement of TVTE innovative approach/insights, best practice in the context of K−12 TVL track.
 
6.13.1.	Bachelor of Technical-Vocational Teacher Education Major in Automotive Technology (BTVTEd-AT)
a.	Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio − cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts;
b.	Articulate mastery on Training Regulations and Competency−Based Curriculum with focus Automotive Technology;
c.	Demonstrate mastery of on skills in Automotive Technology;
d.	Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies appropriate to specific learners and their environments with focus on the skills recommended in Technical Vocational Education Trainer’s Methodology;
e.	Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners with focus on the development of Competency−Based Curriculum and Competency− Based Learning Materials in Technical−Vocational Education;
f.	Apply skills in the development and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices;
g.	Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing and reporting learning processes and outcomes;
h.	Practice professional and ethical teaching standards responding to community, national, and global needs and realities; and
i.	Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field–based opportunities.
 
6.13.2.	Bachelor of Technical-Vocational Teacher Education major in Food and Service Management (BTVTEd - FSM)
a.	Articulate the rootedness of education in philosophical, socio − cultural, historical, psychological, and political contexts;
b.	Articulate mastery on Training Regulations and Competency−Based Curriculum with focus Food Service Management;
c.	Demonstrate mastery of on skills in Food Service Management;
d.	Facilitate learning using a wide range of teaching methodologies appropriate to specific learners and their environments with focus on the skills recommended in Technical Vocational Education Trainer’s Methodology;
e.	Develop innovative curricula, instructional plans, teaching approaches, and resources for diverse learners with focus on the development of Competency−Based Curriculum and Competency− Based Learning Materials in Technical−Vocational Education;
f.	Apply skills in the development and utilization of ICT to promote quality, relevant, and sustainable educational practices;
g.	Demonstrate a variety of thinking skills in planning, monitoring, assessing and reporting learning processes and outcomes;
h.	Practice professional and ethical teaching standards responding to community, national, and global needs and realities; and
i.	Pursue lifelong learning for personal and professional growth through varied experiential and field–based opportunities.
 
SECTION II.
Degree Programs, Academic Standards and Regulations

A.	DEGREE PROGRAMS

1.	College of Education, Arts, and Sciences (CEDAS)
1.1.	Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSP)
1.2.	Bachelor of Arts in English (AB−English)
1.3.	Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim)
1.4.	Bachelor of Elementary Education−Generalist (BEED − Generalist)
1.5.	Bachelor of Early Childhood Education (BECEd)
1.6.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in English (BSED − English)
1.7.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Mathematics (BSED − Mathematics)
1.8.	Bachelor of Secondary Education major in Filipino (BSED − Filipino)
1.9.	Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)

2.	College of Accountancy, Business, and Entrepreneurship (CABE)
2.1.	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BSA)
2.2.	Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System (BSAIS)
2.3.	Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting (BSMA)
2.4.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA)
2.5.	Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM)

3.	College of Engineering (COE)
3.1.	Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering (BSCE)
3.2.	Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering (BSECE)
3.3.	Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering (BSCpE)

4.	College of Computing and Information Sciences (CCIS)
4.1.	Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS)
4.2.	Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT)
4.3.	Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS)

5.	College of Health Sciences (CHS)
5.1.	Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN)
5.2.	Bachelor of Science in Midwifery (BSM)
5.3.	Diploma in Midwifery (DM)
5.4.	Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology (BSRT)
5.5.	Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science (BSMLS)
 
6.	College of Special Programs (CSP)
6.1.	Bachelor of Library and Information Science (BLIS)
6.2.	Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd)
6.3.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Financial Management (BSBA−FM)
6.4.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Marketing Management (BSBA−MM)
6.5.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Major in Human Resource Development Management (BSBA−HRDM)
6.6.	Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM)
6.7.	Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim)
6.8.	Bachelor of Science in Computer Science (BSCS)
6.9.	Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in English (BSEd−English)
6.10.	Bachelor of Secondary Education Major in Filipino (BSEd−Filipino)
6.11.	Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT)
6.12.	Bachelor of Technical−Vocational Teacher Education (BTVTEd)
6.13.	Bachelor of Technical−Vocational Teacher Education Major in Automotive Technology (BTVTEd−AT)
6.14.	Bachelor of Technical−Vocational Teacher Education Major in Food and Service Management (BTVTEd −FSM)

B.	ACADEMIC STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
1.	General Standards

1.1.	A student who wishes to enroll first year in any of the following College programs must have obtained the following ratings:

STATUS	OLSAT or Its Equivalent
Regular	At least High Average
Probationary	At least Low Average
1.2.	A student who gets probationary status based on the above ratings will be subjected to bridging program according to his/her deficient subject(s);
1.3.	A student who has failure/s shall be placed on academic probation and shall be deloaded correspondingly or redirected as determined by the Program Head and/or Dean of College;
 
1.4.	A student who drops a subject after Midterm or Third Quarterly is marked Dropped. However, if he/she gets a failing mark and drops before the final examination he/she is marked 5.0 (failed);
1.5.	A student must follow the curriculum of the college he/she is enrolled in.
1.6.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semestral load as listed in the curriculum for each program;
1.7.	A 60% cut−off is the basis for all students' examinations using the approved transmutation table. However, a specific program may impose certain cut−off for their students to follow in order to remain in that program;
1.8.	The College encourages the students' participation in extra− curricular activities as supplementary activities for classroom instructions and for their holistic development. However, they have to make sure that these activities will not interfere with their academic studies; and
1.9.	The summer session is offered to cater to specific needs of the students. The maximum load is nine (9) units.
2.	Specific Standards

2.1.	COLLEGE OF EDUCATION, ARTS AND SCIENCES (CEDAS)

2.1.1.	Teacher Education Program
A student who wishes to enroll first year in the Teacher Education Program must follow the following policies:
a.	A senior high school graduate of any strand may enrol in the Teacher Education Program;
b.	A first−year student of the Teacher Education Program will be allowed to continue in the second−year program unless he/she has no failing grades or below the cut−off grade exceeding 15 units;
c.	A student who failed or has grades below the cut−off in three subjects or 9 units will be given first warning. A second warning will be given if he/she has already accumulated 12 units of failed subjects or below the cut−off grade. He/she will be automatically out from the program if he/she has already accumulated 15 units of failed subjects or below the cut−off grades; and
 
d.	All students must strictly follow the prerequisite subjects; otherwise, the enrolled subjects will be given no credit.

RETENTION SCHEME
a.	The cut−off grades for general education, professional, and major subjects shall be 2.5;
b.	The earned grades in the level will be accumulated as the student proceeds to the next year level.;
c.	An accumulation of 9 units (3 subjects of 3 units or any of the 1 or 2 units subjects) with grades below the cut− off or failed subjects shall be given the first warning and shall be subjected to academic counseling;
d.	An accumulation of 12 units (4 subjects of 3 units or any of the 1 or 2 units subjects) with grades below the cut− off or failed subjects shall be given the second warning and shall be subjected to intervention;
e.	An accumulation of 15 units (5 subjects of 3 units or any of the 1 or 2 unit subjects) with grades below the cut− off or failed subjects shall be subjected for redirection; and
f.	This scheme only applies until first semester of third year level only.
2.1.2.	Psychology Program
a.	A first−year student who fails in one (1) major subject during the semester will be required to report for counseling and participate in the mentoring program to facilitate his/her deficiencies. If the same students fail again in his/her subjects in the next semester or during summer, he/she automatically redirected to another program;
b.	A regular student who fails in (2) major subjects in second year or third year will not be allowed to take the requisite subjects until he/she passed the subject with the grade of 2.5 and he/she will be required to participate the mentoring program; and
c.	The basis for cut−off computation of grade is 60% in both minor and major examinations.
 
2.1.3.	Criminology Program
A student who wishes to enrol in the Criminology Program must follow the following policies:
a.	A Senior Highschool graduate of any strand can enroll in the Criminology Program;
b.	All students including returnees, transferees, shiftees and cross enrollees who wish to enroll in BS Criminology shall submit drug test result as requirement for enrolment.

RETENTION SCHEME
a.	A criminology student must maintain a grade of at least 80 or 2.5 in all his/her major subjects enrolled both in the first and second semester;
b.	A Criminology student is allowed to continue in the second−year program if he/she has accumulated the required cut− off 15 units of below 2.5 grade needed to be maintained in all of his/her major subjects;
c.	A Criminology student who failed or has grades below cut−off in three Subjects or 9 units will be given first warning. A second warning will be given for a total of 12 units below cut−off or failing grades;
d.	A Criminology student is advised to shift or will be redirected to another program if he/she has already reached the 15−unit limit accumulated grade of below 2.5;
e.	This scheme will only apply until first semester of third year level; and
f.	All students must strictly follow the pre−requisite subjects, otherwise the enrolled subjects will be given no credit.
2.2.	COLLEGE	OF	ACCOUNTANCY,	BUSINESS,	AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP (CABE)
2.2.1.	Bachelor of Science in Accountancy (BSA)
a.	An ABM CJC graduate who obtains a Grade Point Average (GPA) of 80 and above will be admitted to the BSA program without need to take the entrance exam. Those
 
with GPA below 80 will be redirected to other business programs;
b.	An ABM CJC graduate, a non CJC ABM graduate or a non CJC non−ABM graduate will take the entrance exam. A passing rate of 50% and above in specialized area will qualify the student to be admitted to the BSA program. Those who obtain a rate of below 50% will be admitted under probationary status for 1 semester only;
c.	A General Weighted Average (GWA) of 2.0 for the entire school year, with no grade below 2.7 in any subject, will qualify the student to be promoted to the next year level under the BSA program. Those who do not qualify will be redirected to other business programs. This applies from second year to fourth year level;
d.	For transferees and returnees, the program head will evaluate the subjects already taken to determine the year level in which the student qualifies. In cases when the transferee or returnee does not meet the school year evaluation requirement, the program head can intervene by placing the student in a temporary admission to the BSA program with an irregular probationary status;
e.	Students under probationary status must get a GWA of
2.0 for the semester, with no grade below 2.7 in any subject. The student must be enroled at least a minimum of 21 units in a semester. Those who do not qualify will be redirected to other business programs;
f.	Only graduating students are allowed to take a maximum of thirty (30) units; and
g.	The student must be able to obtain a National Certificate (NC) as a requirement before he/she can graduate of the program.

Grade Point Average (GPA) is the average grade of the Senior High School graduate from Grade 11 to Grade 12.

General Weighted Average (GWA) is the weighted average grade of the College student for the entire school year, excluding summer classes.
 
2.2.2.	Bachelor of Science in Accounting Information System (BSAIS)
a.	An ABM CJC graduate will be automatically admitted to the BSAIS program after taking the entrance exam;
b.	A non−ABM CJC graduate, a non−CJC ABM graduate or a non−CJC non−ABM graduate will be admitted after taking the entrance exam and interview. The interview will be conducted by the program head;
c.	Only graduating students are allowed to take a maximum of thirty (30) units;
d.	The total number of units and the subjects a student may register in a semester shall be in accordance with what is stipulated in the curricular program the student is enrolled in.
e.	Any student may be allowed to carry an overload of not more than 6 units provided, that such are back subjects;
f.	The arrangement of subjects in the curriculum of the course must be strictly followed. A student (1st year to 3rd year) who is enrolled in a subject without passing its prerequisite shall not be given academic credit;
g.	A graduating student may enroll in two subjects simultaneously, one of which is a prerequisite to the other, provided he/she does not exceed the maximum of 30 units as certified by his/her program head;
h.	A student should not have failed 2 times in the same subject. The total number of failed subjects should not be more than 3 subjects per semester; and
i.	A warning will be issued by the program head to a student who failed to comply with the above provision and will be advised to take tutorial classes. A student issued with 3 warnings will be redirected to other programs;
2.2.3.	Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting (BSMA)
a.	An ABM CJC graduate will be automatically admitted to the BSMA program after taking the entrance exam;
b.	A non−ABM CJC graduate, a non−CJC ABM graduate or a non−CJC non−ABM graduate will be admitted after taking the entrance exam and interview. The interview will be conducted by the program head;
 
c.	Only graduating students are allowed to take a maximum of thirty (30) units;
d.	The total number of units and the subjects a student may register in a semester shall be in accordance with what is stipulated in the curricular program the student is enrolled in;
e.	Any student may be allowed to carry an overload of not more than 6 units provided, that such are back subjects;
f.	The arrangement of subjects in the curriculum of the course must be strictly followed. A student (1st year to 3rd year) who is enrolled in a subject without passing its prerequisite shall not be given academic credit;
g.	A graduating student may enroll in two subjects simultaneously, one of which is a prerequisite to the other, provided he/she does not exceed the maximum of 30 units as certified by his/her program head;
h.	A student should not have failed 2 times in the same subject. The total number of failed subjects should not be more than 3 subjects per semester; and
i.	A warning will be issued by the program head to a student who failed to comply with the above provision and will be advised to take tutorial classes. A student issued with 3 warnings will be redirected to other programs.
2.2.4.	Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA)
a.	An ABM CJC graduate will be automatically admitted to the BSBA program after taking the entrance exam;
b.	A non−ABM CJC graduate, a non−CJC ABM graduate or a non−CJC non−ABM graduate will be admitted after taking the entrance exam and interview. The interview will be conducted by the program head;
c.	Only graduating students are allowed to take a maximum of thirty (30) units;
d.	The total number of units and the subjects a student may register in a semester shall be in accordance with what is stipulated in the curricular program the student is enrolled in;
 
e.	Any student may be allowed to carry an overload of not more than 6 units provided, that such are back subjects;
f.	The arrangement of subjects in the curriculum of the course must be strictly followed. A student (1st year to 3rd year) who is enrolled in a subject without passing its prerequisite shall not be given academic credit;
g.	A graduating student may enroll in two subjects simultaneously, one of which is a prerequisite to the other, provided he/she does not exceed the maximum of 30 units as certified by his/her program head;
h.	A student should not have failed 2 times in the same subject. The total number of failed subjects should not be more than 3 subjects per semester; and
i.	A warning will be issued by the program head to a student who failed to comply with the above provision and will be advised to take tutorial classes. A student issued with 3 warnings will be redirected to other programs.
2.2.5.	Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management (BSHM)
a.	An ABM CJC graduate under Associate Hotel and Restaurant Management will be automatically admitted to the BSHM program without need to take the entrance exam;
b.	An ABM CJC graduate other than Associate Hotel and Restaurant Management, a non−ABM CJC graduate, a non−CJC ABM graduate will be admitted after taking the entrance exam;
c.	A student who fails in any major subject which is a pre− requisite of a higher subject will not be allowed to take higher subjects until he/she passes the said pre− requisite subject;
d.	A student must complete his/her major subjects, except research, to avail the national/international cruise ship familiarization and training;
e.	A student who only passed the research defense can have his/her internship program;
f.	A student must render at least 5 hours duty every semester for institutional gatherings, and duty hours
 
will be deducted from his/her required practicum hours;
g.	Only graduating students are allowed to take a maximum of thirty (30) units; and
h.	The student must be able to obtain at least 3 National Certificates (NC) as a requirement before he/she can graduate in the BSHM programs.

2.3.	COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING (CoE)

Engineering Programs (BSCE, BSECE, BSCpE)
2.3.1.	New Students
A student who intends to enroll first year in any of the following Engineering programs must obtain the minimum requirement for admission:


STATUS	
OLSAT OR EQUIVALENT EXAMINATION
(Non−verbal Analysis)	HS GRADE
		STEM	NON−STEM
		

MATH	

SCIENCE	

GWA
REGULAR	Average	80	80	90
PROBATIONARY	Below Average	76	76	80
	Inferior	80	80	


Provision. All incoming 1st year engineering students are prescribed to participate in a bridging program, EMATH Enhancement Class. However, student who are in the STEM STRAND and with a distinction of at least HIGH HONORS or a grade of at least 92 in both Manth and Science subjects may opt not to participate.

2.3.2	Transferees
A student may be qualified to proceed to his/her course under the Engineering Program of the College of Engineering if he/she has attained a grade of at least 2.5 or 80% in all his major subjects taken
 
from other schools. This will be a similar requirement for cross− enrolment to other schools although students are strongly advised to take all the major subjects in Cor Jesu College.
Proviso. A student who has a grade of less than 2.5 or 80% in his/her major subject(s) taken from other schools may be allowed to proceed to his/her program in the College of Engineering in this institution provided that he/she shall pass the qualifying examinations for those subject(s) otherwise he/she must retake and pass the said subject(s).

2.3.3	Regular Students. A regular student who fails in any of his/her major subject(s) may be given no more than two (2) chances to retake and pass the subject(s), otherwise he/she shall be redirected to any non−board engineering program.
2.3.4	Students on Probation. A student on probation who fails in any of his/her major subject(s) is no longer given a chance to retake and pass the subject(s) and shall be redirected. to any non−board engineering program.


Number of failures	allowed to retake the subject(s)
	Regular
Status	On Probation
one subject	twice	once
two subjects	once	once
three subjects	once	Redirect to
other program

Proviso. Astudent on probation mayreturn orre−apply in their previous program if they achieve a grade of at least 2.5 in their major subject(s) for the current semester.
2.3.5	Deloading. A student who fails in any of his/her major subject(s) is required to reduce his/her academic load in the succeeding semester. The Program Head or the College Dean determines the number of units to be reduced upon consultation with the concerned professors
2.3.6	Overloading. Only those students who are graduating in
 
that semester are allowed to take an overload of not more than 6 units for as long as his/her total load shall not exceed 30 units whichever is lower.
2.3.7	Passing Score and Cut-off Grade.

Except for the Correlation Subjects, the passing score in all examinations shall be 60% with an equivalent grade of 3.0 or 75%.

The passing score for Correlation Subjects is 75% with an equivalent grade of 3.0. A score of 60% is conditional and will merit one examination retake to pass the subject.
A passing grade of 3.0 will be the basis for entrance to the next level following the pre−requisites of subjects.

2.4.	COLLEGE OF COMPUTING AND INFORMATION SCIENCES (CCIS)

BS in Computer Science and BS in Information Technology
2.4.1.	New Students
To qualify for enrolment in BS Computer Science and BS Information Technology programs under the College Computing and Information Sciences, a student must have obtained at least the following ratings:
Minimum requirement for admission to the program:


STATUS	OLSAT OR EQUIVALENT EXAMINATION
(Non−verbal
Analysis)	HIGH SCHOOL SUBJECTS
		
MATH	
SCIENCE
Regular	Average	80	80
	Below Average	76	76
Probationary			
	Inferior	80	80
2.4.2.	Regular Students
A regular student who fails in any of his/her major subject/s may be given no more than two chances to retake and pass the said subject/s, otherwise he/she shall
 
be redirected.
2.4.3.	Students on Probation
A student on probation who fails in any of his/her major subject/s is no longer given a chance to retake and pass the subject/s and shall now be redirected.
Proviso. A student in probation who fails in his/her major subject/s may be given only one last chance to retake and pass the subject/s if he/she has obtained a general average rating of 2.5 in all of his/her other subjects enrolled during that semester.

2.4.4.	Deloading
A student who fails in any of his/her major subject/s is required to reduce his/her academic load in the succeeding semester. The Program Head, or Dean of College, determines the number of units to be reduced upon consultation with the concerned instructors.
2.4.5.	Overloading
Only those who are graduating in that semester are allowed to take an overload of not more than six (6) units, for as long as his/her total load shall not exceed 30 units.

2.4.6.	Transferees and Cross-Enrollments
A student, from other school, may be qualified to proceed to his/her course under the Computer Studies Programs if he/she has attained a grade of at least 2.5 or 80% in all of his/her major subjects taken from the origin school. The same requirement is set for cross−enrollment to other schools although students are strongly advised to take all of the major subjects in Cor Jesu College.
Proviso. A transferee student who has a grade of less than
2.5 or 80% in his/her major subject/s taken from the origin school may be allowed to proceed to his/her course in the Computer Studies Programs of Cor Jesu College if he/she shall pass the special examination given corresponding to said subject/s, otherwise he/she shall retake and pass the subject/s, accordingly.
 
Library and Information Science Program (BLIS)
2.4.7.	New Students
To qualify for enrolment in BS Library and Information Science program under the College of Computing and Information Sciences, a student must have obtained at least the following ratings:
Minimum requirement for admission to the program


STATUS	OLSAT OR EQUIVALENT EXAMINATION
(Non−verbal
Analysis)	HIGH SCHOOL SUBJECTS
		MATH	SCIENCE
Regular	Average	80	80
	Below Average	76	76
Probationary			
	Inferior	80	80
2.4.8.	Regular Status
a.	A student who fails in two (2) major subjects will be advised to take a lesser load in the next semester;
b.	If the student fails in three (3) major subjects he/she will be redirected to another field of concentration; and
c.	The basis for cut−off computation of grade is 50% in both minor and major examinations.
2.4.9.	Students on Probation
A student on probation who fails in any of his/her major subject/s is no longer given a chance to retake and pass the subject/s and shall now be redirected.
Proviso. A student in probation who fails in his/her major subject/s may be given only one last chance to retake and pass the subject/s if he/she has obtained a general average rating of 2.5 in all of his/her other subjects enrolled during that semester.
2.4.10.	Deloading
A student who fails in any of his/her major subject/s is required to reduce his/her academic load in the succeeding semester.  The  Program  Head,  or  Dean  of  College,
 
determines the number of units to be reduced upon consultation with the concerned instructors.

2.4.11.	Overloading
Only those who are graduating on that semester are allowed to take an overload of not more than six (6) units, for as long as his/her total load shall not exceed 30 units.
2.4.12.	Transferees and Cross-Enrollments
A student, from other school, may be qualified to proceed to his/her course under the College of Engineering and Technology if he/she has attained a grade of at least 2.5 or 80% in all of his/her major subjects taken from the origin school. The same requirement is set for cross−enrollment to other schools although students are strongly advised to take all of the major subjects in Cor Jesu College.

Proviso. A transferee student who has a grade of less than
2.5 or 80% in his/her major subject/s taken from the origin school may be allowed to proceed to his/her course in the College of Engineering and Technology of Cor Jesu College if he/she shall pass the special examination given corresponding to said subject/s, otherwise he/she shall retake and pass the subject/s, accordingly.


2.5.	COLLEGE OF HEALTH SCIENCES (CHS)

2.5.1.	Bachelor of Science in Nursing Program (BSN)
a.	A nursing student must get a general weighted average (WGA) of 82% and must have no grade below 80% in all subjects as well as in the Related Learning Experience (RLE) for him/ her to be retained in the program;
b.	A nursing student must not lack subjects of more than six (6) units of the regular unit load for a semester for him/ her to be promoted to the next level;
c.	A student who fails 50% or more of a semester unit load will be dropped from the program or advised to shift to another program.
 
d.	A student who fails a nursing major subject which constitute 50% or more of the total load is not a criterion for being dropped from the program provided that the student has not failed on other minor subjects;
e.	A student who fails in any nursing subjects shall not be allowed to enroll a nursing major in the next level or semester.
f.	A student is allowed to take or repeat nursing subjects twice only;
g.	To fail twice on the same subjects is a ground for dismissal from the program.
h.	A student dismissed from the program may be considered for readmission by shifting to a different program, provided shifting requisites are met;
i.	A student will undergo counseling after the first failure in any subject with the College Dean and will be referred to the Guidance Counselor;
j.	A student who fails up to 49% of the total academic load should be placed under academic probation. The student will only be allowed to enroll maximum of 18 units the following semester. Moreover, Probation Notice shall be furnished and will be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardians;
k.	A student nurse who gets pregnant while taking the program will be asked to submit obstetrics clearance;
l.	A transferee who failed a major subject in nursing from a previous school and who has been granted admission to the College of Health Sciences, Cor Jesu College, Inc. shall be given only one chance to pass the subject. He/ she would be dropped from the program should the student fail the same subjects.
m.	A nursing student is allowed a maximum of six (6) years residence in the entire program. The program head will inform the College Dean who in turn call the attention of the student the year preceding the expiration of the residency period;
n.	A student who drops a subject before preliminary examination is marked Dropped. However, if she/ he is dropped after preliminary examination he/ she will be marked failed (5.0).
 
o.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semester load as listed in the curriculum;
p.	A student is encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities provided that these activities will not interfere with his/ her academic studies; and
q.	A student is encouraged to observe pre−requisite subject.
2.5.2.	Bachelor of Science in Midwifery Program (BSM)
a.	A midwifery student must get a general weighted average (WGA) of 80% and must have no grade below 75% in all subjects as well as in the Related Learning Experience (RLE) for him/ her to be retained in the program;
b.	A midwifery student must not lack subjects of more than six (6) units of the regular unit load for a semester for him/ her to be promoted to the next level;
c.	A student who fails 50% or more of a semester unit load is advised to shift to another program;
d.	A student who fails in any Midwifery subject shall not be allowed to take a midwifery major subject in the next level or semester;
e.	A student is allowed to take or repeat Midwifery subjects twice only;
f.	To fail twice on the same subjects is a ground for dismissal from the program;
g.	A student dismissed from the program may be considered for readmission by shifting to different program, provided shifting requisites are met;
h.	A student will undergo counseling after the first failure in any subject with the College Dean and will be referred to the Guidance Counselor;
i.	A student who fails up to 49% of the total academic load should be placed under academic probation. The student will only be allowed to enroll maximum of 18 units the following semester. Moreover, Probation Notice shall be furnished and will be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardians;
j.	A student nurse who gets pregnant while taking the program will be asked to submit obstetrics clearance;
 
k.	A student who drops a subject before Preliminary examination is marked Dropped. However, if she/ he dropped after preliminary examination he/ she will be marked failed (5.0);
l.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semester load as listed in the curriculum;
r.	A student Midwife is allowed a maximum of six (6) years residence in the entire program. The program head will inform the College Dean who in turn call the attention of the student the year preceding the expiration of the residency period;
m.	A student is encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities provided that these activities will not interfere with his/ her academic studies; and
n.	A student is encouraged to observe pre−requisite subjects.

2.5.3.	Diploma in Midwifery
a.	A midwifery student must get a general weighted average (WGA) of 80% and must have no grade below 75% in all subjects as well as in the Related Learning Experience (RLE) for him/ her to be retained in the program.;
b.	A midwifery student must not lack subjects of more than six (6) units of the regular unit load for a semester for him/ her to be promoted to the next level;
c.	A student who fails 50% or more of a semester unit load is advised to shift to another program;
d.	A student who fails in any Midwifery subjects shall not be allowed to take a midwifery major subjects in the next level or semester;
e.	A student is allowed to take or repeat Midwifery subjects twice only;
f.	To fail twice on the same subjects is a ground for dismissal from the program.
g.	A student dismissed from the program may be considered for readmission by shifting to different program, provided shifting requisites are met;
 
h.	A student will undergo counseling after the first failure in any subject with the College Dean and will be referred to the Guidance Counselor;
i.	A student who fails up to 49% of the total academic load should be placed under academic probation. The student will only be allowed to enroll maximum of 18 units the following semester. Moreover, Probation Notice shall be furnished and will be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardians;
j.	A student nurse who gets pregnant while taking the program will be asked to submit obstetrics clearance;
k.	A student who drops a subject before Preliminary examination is marked Dropped. However, if she/ he dropped after preliminary examination he/ she will be marked failed (5.0);
l.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semester load as listed in the curriculum.
s.	A student Midwife is allowed a maximum of six (6) years residence in the entire program. The program head will inform the College Dean who in turn call the attention of the student the year preceding the expiration of the residency period;
m.	A student is encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities provided that these activities will not interfere with his/her academic studies; and
n.	A student is encouraged to observe pre−requisite subjects.
2.5.4.	Bachelor of Science in Radiologic Technology (BSRT)
a.	A radiologic technology student must get a general weighted average (WGA) of 82% and must have no grade below 80% in all subjects as well as in the Laboratory for him/ her to be retained in the program;
b.	A radiologic technology student must not lack subjects of more than six (6) units of the regular unit load for a semester for him/ her to be promoted to the next level;
c.	A student who fails 50% or more of a semester unit load will be dropped from the program or advised to shift to other program;
 
d.	A student who fails a major subject which constitute 50% or more of the total load is not a criterion for being dropped from the program provided that student has not failed other minor subjects;
e.	A student who fails in any subjects shall not be allowed to enrol a major subject in the next level or semester;
f.	A student is allowed to take or repeat subjects twice only.
g.	To fail twice on the same subjects is a ground for dismissal from the program;
h.	A student dismissed from the program may be considered for readmission by shifting to a different program, provided shifting requisites are met;
i.	A student will undergo counseling after the first failure in any subject with the College Dean and shall be referred to the Guidance Counselor;
j.	A student who fails up to 49% of the total academic load should be placed under academic probation. The student will only be allowed to enroll maximum of 18 units the following semester. Moreover, Probation Notice shall be furnished and will be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardians;
k.	A student nurse who gets pregnant while taking the program will be asked to submit obstetrics clearance;
l.	A transferee who failed a major subject from a previous school and who has been granted admission to the College of Health Sciences, Cor Jesu College, Inc. shall be given only one chance to pass the subject. He/ she should be dropped from the program should the student fail the same subjects.
t.	A student is allowed a maximum of six (6) years residence in the entire program. The program head will inform the College Dean who in turn call the attention of the student the year preceding the expiration of the residency period;
m.	A student who drops a subject before preliminary examination is marked Dropped. However, if she/ he is dropped after preliminary examination he/ she will be marked failed (5.0);
n.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semester load as listed in the curriculum;
 
o.	A student is encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities provided that these activities will not interfere with his/ her academic studies; and
p.	A student is encouraged to observe pre−requisite subject.

2.5.5.	Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Science (BSMLS)
a.	A student must get a general weighted average (WGA) of 82% and must have no grade below 80% in all subjects as well as in the Laboratory for him/ her to be retained in the program;
b.	A student must not lack subjects of more than six (6) units of the regular unit load for a semester for him/ her to be promoted to the next level;
c.	A student who fails 50% or more of a semester unit load will be dropped from the program or advised to shift to other program;
d.	A student who fails a major subject which constitute 50% or more of the total load is not a criterion for being dropped from the program provided that student has not failed other minor subjects;
e.	A student who fails in any subjects shall not be allowed to enrol a major subject in the next level or semester;
f.	A student is allowed to take or repeat subjects twice only.
g.	To fail twice on the same subjects is a ground for dismissal from the program;
h.	A student dismissed from the program is advised to shift to another program where requisites are met;
i.	A student will undergo counseling after the first failure in any subject with the College Dean and shall be referred to the Guidance Counselor;
j.	A student who fails up to 49% of the total academic load should be placed under academic probation. The student will only be allowed to enroll maximum of 18 units the following semester. Moreover, Probation Notice shall be furnished and will be signed by the student and his/her parents/guardians;
k.	A student nurse who gets pregnant while taking the program will be asked to submit obstetrics clearance;
 
u.	A transferee who failed a major subject from a previous school and who has been granted admission to the College of Health Sciences, Cor Jesu College, Inc. shall be given only one chance to pass the subject. He/ she should be dropped from the program should the student fail the same subjects. A student is allowed a maximum of six (6) years residence in the entire program. The program head will inform the College Dean who in turn call the attention of the student the year preceding the expiration of the residency period;
l.	A student who drops a subject before preliminary examination is marked dropped. However, if she/ he is dropped after preliminary examination he/ she will be marked failed (5.0);
m.	A student is encouraged to carry the normal semester load as listed in the curriculum;
n.	A student is encouraged to participate in extracurricular activities provided that these activities will not interfere with his/ her academic studies;
o.	A student is encouraged to observe pre−requisite subject; and
p.	Only those who completed all the course requirements for the first three years shall be qualified for internship.
3.	Policy on Graduates Taking Board Examination
The agreement between the two parties should emphasize that:

3.1.	Any graduating student must seriously and diligently attend the Skill and Competency Enhancement Course provided by the school. At the end of course, the student should take and pass the final examination of the said course. Only then would the student be allowed to graduate, and eventually, take the board exam;

3.1.1	Passing rate for the Skill and Competency Enhancement Course is 75.0% across all areas;
3.1.2	Student who fails to pass the 75.0% passing rate across all areas but gets at least 60.0% average rate shall be allowed to take removal exam only once. If the student fails again to get at least 75.0%, she or he shall be required to re−enroll the course; and
 
3.1.3	A student who gets a rating above 75% but fails in any of the areas of the final examination shall be allowed to take removal exam on the said area only once. If the student fails again to get at least 75.0% on the said area, he or she shall be required to re−enroll the course.
3.2.	After graduation, the student would be highly encouraged to attend another review provided by any of the review centers with very good track record of passing percentage in any licensure examination. As proof of attendance, the student must present the official attendance sheet provided by the center, duly signed by its authorized signatories;

3.3.	Only after the two preceding conditions shall have been fulfilled by the student would the school allow him/her to take the licensure examination;
3.4.	An incentive scheme would be considered by the school administration to motivate the board takers not just to pass the exam, but also to strive for a much higher board performance;

3.5.	Graduates who will top the PRC Board examination will be given refund on the tuition and miscellaneous of the whole year on the school year last attended:
3.5.1.	Top 1: 100% of the tuition and miscellaneous fees of the last school year attended
3.5.2.	Top 2: 90% of the tuition fees and miscellaneous fees of the last school year attended
3.5.3.	Top 3: 80% of the tuition fees and miscellaneous fees of the last school year attended
3.5.4.	Top 4: 70% of the tuition fees of the last school year attended
3.5.5.	Top 5: 60% of the tuition fees of the last school year attended
3.5.6.	Top 6 to top 10: 50% of the tuition fees of the last school year attended
 
C.	EXAMINATIONS

1.	A student's financial obligation must be fully settled and paid as per assessment schedule before taking the examination. (BOT, Res. No. 008, S. 2008);
2.	Every student must get his/her examination permit from the Finance Office before every examination period;
3.	During the examination, the instructor signs the permit. No permit No exam.
4.	A student caught cheating during the examination will get a failing mark in that particular subject;
5.	Special Examinations are given for excused absences in the Midterm and Final Exams;
6.	Special Examinations are given only within two weeks or ten (10) school days after the examinations.;
7.	A special examination may be arranged by the student with the office of the Dean of College Department. The arrangement must be made at least two days before the first day of the examination schedule;
8.	The following are the steps in taking special examinations:

8.1.	The student applies for a special permit from the Dean of College Department.
8.2.	The student pays his/her special examination fee at the Finance Office.
8.3.	The student presents an official receipt to the Dean of College and	secures a special exam permit.
8.4.	The student presents the Special Examination Permit to the Dean who will set the date and time for special exams for all subjects.
The teacher is under no obligation to grant any exemption. However, a college policy of exempting students from final examinations is implemented under the following guidelines:

8.4.1.	The student has kept a grade of at least 1.5 for the semester
8.4.2.	He/she has not incurred more than three (3) unexcused absences.
8.4.3.	He/she has not been guilty of outright unbecoming behavior.
8.4.4.	Exemption is official when approved and posted by the Dean of the College.
 
D.	THE GRADING SYSTEM

1.	Higher Education
1.1.	The Higher Education, except the College of Health Sciences, adopts the numerical grading system, with the following grades points:

1.0 = 95 – 100
1.1	=94	2.1	=84
1.2	=93	2.2	=83
1.3	=92	2.3	=82
1.4	=91	2.4	=81
1.5	=90	2.5	=80
1.6	=89	2.6	=79
1.7	=88	2.7	=78
1.8	=87	2.8	=77
1.9	=86	2.9	=76
2.0	=85	3.0	=75
5.0 – FAILED
6.0 – WITHDRAWN
7.0 – DROPPED
8.0 − INCOMPLETE
2.4 – NO TEST

1.2.	An incomplete grade must be completed within 30 days following the giving of an INCOMPLETE (8.0), otherwise it becomes a 5.0 or a failure;
1.3.	Computation of Grades for Lecture Subject

𝐶𝑇1+1𝘘𝐸+𝑀𝐸
𝑀. 𝐺. = 	2	
2

𝐶𝑇2+3𝘘𝐸+𝑀𝐺
	2	 + 𝐹𝐸
𝐹. 𝐺. = 	2	
2


1.4.	Computation of Grades for Laboratory Subjects
 
𝐶𝑇1+1𝑄𝑄𝐸 + 𝐿𝑅1 + 𝑀𝐸
𝑀. 𝐺. = 	2	
3



𝐶𝑇2+3𝘘𝐸+𝑀𝐺
	2	 + 𝐿𝑅2 + 𝐹𝐸
𝐹. 𝐺. = 	2	
2
1.5.	LEGEND:

MG	: Midterm Grade
FG	: Final Grade
CT1, CT2	: Class Test (Quizzes, Class Requirements and Oral Recitation)
LR1, LR2	: Laboratory Requirements
1QE, 3QE	: Quarterly Exam
ME	: Midterm Exam
FE	: Final Exam

1.6.	For a student to get a passing mark, he/she has to get at least 60% of a given quiz and examination;
1.7.	Report cards are given to the students twice during the semester, after the Midterm and Final Examinations;
1.8.	Report cards are mailed to the parents after the Final Examinations; and
1.9.	If a student would like some explanations regarding the grade he/she received for a certain subject, he/she may consult the instructor of the subject.

2.	College of Health Sciences Grading System

2.1.	Grade Computation for the Subject with RLE
Prelim Grade	= 2/3 class standing + 1/3 Prelim Exam
= 60% PG Theory + 40% PG RLE
Midterm Grade	= 2/3 class standing + 1/3 Midterm Exam
= 60% MTG Theory + 40% MTG RLE
Pre−Final Grade	= 2/3 class standing + 1/3 Pre−final Exam
= 60% PFG Theory + 40% Pre−Final RLE
 
Temp. Final Grade  = 2/3 class standing + 1/3 Final Exam
= 60% TFG Theory + 40% TFG RLE
Final Grade = (((PG + MG + PFG + TFG) /4) x70%) + 30% Compre
2.2.	Grade Computations for subjects having no RLE

Prelim Grade	= 2/3 Class standing + 1/3 Prelim Exam Midterm Grade	= 2/3 Class standing + 1/3 Midterm Exam Pre−Final Grade	= 2/3 Class standing + 1/3 Pre−Final Exam Temp−Final = 2/3 Class standing + 1/3 Temp. Final Exam
Final Grade = (((PG + MG + PFG + TFG) /4) x70% )+ 30% Compre

Comprehensive Exam	= (RS/TS) x 60 + 40
2.1.	A student who fails to take a quiz / long examination gets a zero score. No Incomplete grade is given;
2.2.	Cut−off Mark
The College uses a 60−40 cut−off mark. For a student to get a passing mark, he/she has to get at least 60% of a given quiz or examination.

% Equivalent = Raw Score
Total Items

E.	Graduation Requirements
1.	Graduating students must file their application for graduation on the date set by the Registrar's Office. Late applicants will be fined and may even be advised to postpone their graduation;
2.	The above−mentioned application must be recommended by the Program Head to be approved by the Dean of College and endorsed to the Registrar for final approval;
3.	A graduating student is required to attend the retreat for graduating students;
4.	A graduating student is also required to attend to the practices and other activities of graduating students. Failure of compliance without valid reason and approval from the Director of Student Services is a ground for disqualification of the student to participate in the commencement exercises; and
5.	Students will be allowed to participate in the Commencement Exercises only if they have satisfactorily completed all academic
 
requirements prescribed by the institution and the Commission on Higher Education and have fully paid their financial obligation to the school. (BOT, Res.008, s. 2008).
F.	Latin Honors

AWARD	Years of Residence	Required Minimum
Loads	Lowest Grade	General Weighted
Average
Suma Cum
Laude	Engineering − 5 yrs.
Other courses − 4 yrs.	Regular
Semester: 18 units for all courses
Last Semester of last curricular year:
Education: 12 units
Other courses: 15
units	1.5	1.2
Magna Cum
Laude	Engineering − 4yrs.
Other courses − 3 yrs.		1.7	1.5
Cum Laude	Engineering − 3 yrs.
Other courses − 2 yrs.		1.9	1.7

For Summa Cum Laude, the general weighted average is 1.2 and lowest grade of 1.5 in all academic subjects inclusive of subjects earned from other schools. The general weighted average for Magna Cum Laude is 1.5 and the lowest grade of 1.7 in all academic subjects inclusive of subjects earned from other schools. For Cum Laude, the general weighted average is 1.7 and lowest grade of 1.9 in all academic subjects inclusive of subjects earned from other schools. (Candidate for Latin Honors marked Dropped, No Test and Incomplete is automatically disqualified.)
G.	Annual Academic Awards
1.	Awards for academic excellence may be given by the College to the graduating and under−graduate students at the end of the school year;
2.	All the academic units, at least 36 units in all baccalaureate programs, except in the last academic year of Education program which requires 30 units, must have been earned at Cor Jesu College during that academic year;
3.	Driving, PE and NSTP grades must not be less than 2.5;
4.	The Gold Medalist must have a general weighted average of 1.2 with no semestral grade lower than 1.5;
5.	The Silver Medalist must have a general weighted average of 1.4 with no semestral grade lower than 1.7; and
 
6.	The Bronze Medalist must have a general weighted average of 1.6 with no semestral grade lower than 1.9.

SECTION III.
Admission Requirements and Procedures

A.	BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR REGULAR COLLEGES

FRESHMEN	TRANSFEREES	RETURNEES	BONA FIDE
STUDENTS	FOREIGN
STUDENTS
a.	Report Card
b.	Clear photocopy of Birth Certificate (NSO or PSA)
c.	Certificate of Good Moral Character
d.	Barangay Clearance
e.	Photocopy of Marriage Contract if married
f.	3 pieces of passport−size picture
g.	Entrance Examination
h.	Interview from the Admission Officer
i.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on
Participation to various School related Activities
j.	Medical
Certificate	a.	Certified true copy of the Transcript of Records for Evaluation
b.	Honorable Dismissal from school last
attended
c.	Clear Photocopy of Birth
Certificate (NSO or PSA)
d.	Certificate of Good Moral Character
e.	3 pieces of passport−size picture
f.	Photocopy of Marriage Contract if married
g.	Barangay Clearance
h.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on Participation to various School related Activities
i.	Medical
Certificate	a.	CJC Official I.D.
b.	Barangay Clearance
c.	Photocopy of Marriage
Certificate if married
d.	3 pieces of passport−size picture
e.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on Participation to various School related Activities
f.	Medical
Certificate	a.	CJC Official I.D.
b.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on Participation to various School related Activities
c.	Medical
Certificate	a.	Red Ribbon of the Report Card
b.	Transcript of Records (TOR)
c.	Latest Passport (Original and Photocopy)
d.	Diploma (if any)
e.	Police Clearance (After 6 months)
f.	NBI Clearance (After 6 months)
g.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on Participation to various School related Activities
h.	Medical
Certificate
 
B.	BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR THE COLLEGE OF SPECIAL PROGRAMS

FRESHMEN	TRANSFEREES	RETURNEES AND SHIFTERS	BONA FIDE STUDENTS
a.	Certificate of Employment (Notarized)
b.	Certification from Barangay attesting present economic status
c.	Income Tax Return
d.	Electric Bill− for past 3 months
e.	Report Card
f.	Clear photocopy of Birth
Certificate (NSO or PSA)
g.	Certificate of Good Moral Character
h.	Barangay Clearance
i.	3pcs. of Passport size ID picture
j.	Photocopy of Marriage Contract (if married)
k.	Interview from the Admission Officer
l.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on
Participation to various School related Activities
m.	Medical
Certificate	a.	Certificate of Employment (Notarized)
b.	Certification from Barangay attesting present economic status
c.	Income Tax Return
d.	Electric Bill− for past 3 months
e.	Certified True Copy of the Transcript of Records (TOR)
f.	Honorable Dismissal from school last
attended
g.	Clear photocopy of Birth Certificate (NSO or PSA)
h.	Certificate of Good Moral Character
i.	Barangay Clearance
j.	3pcs. of Passport size ID picture
k.	Photocopy of
Marriage Contract (if married)
l.	Interview from the DSS/Admission Officer
m.	Affidavit of
Parental Consent on Participation to various School
related
n.	Medical Certificate	a.	Certificate of Employment (Notarized)
b.	Certification from Barangay attesting present economic status
d.	Income Tax Return
e.	Electric Bill− for past 3 months
f.	CJC Official ID
g.	Barangay Clearance
h.	3pcs. of
Passport size ID picture
i.	Interview from the Admission Officer
j.	Affidavit of Parental Consent on
Participation to various School related Activities
k.	Medical
Certificate	a.	Certificate of Employment (Notarized)
b.	Certification from Barangay
attesting present economic status
c.	Income Tax Return
d.	Electric Bill – for past 3months
e.	CJC Official ID
f.	Affidavit of
Parental Consent on Participation to various School related Activities
g.	Medical
Certificate
 
A.	ENROLMENT PROCESS

ONLINE ENROLMENT PROCESS

STEP 1.	SIGNIFY INTENT TO ENROLL
Point your browser to OLSEN
at https://apps.cjc.edu.ph/guide−to−olsen online− student.../ . Take note of the guidelines before proceeding to the online form.

STEP 2.		FILL OUT ELECTRONIC FORM IN OLSEN (ONLINE STUDENT ENROLLMENT) SYSTEM
Fulfill all electronic requirements together with OLSEN entry. Communicate with your respective program personnel online (chat) for such requirements and where to submit soft copies.
STEP 3.	SECURE CLEARANCE TO PROCEED
In the OLSEN web page, go to “Check My Enrollment Status” menu (Green Box) to check status of enrollment. Be ready with your Enrollment Reference Number and birth date for validation.

STEP 4.	PAY ENTRANCE FEE
Pay entrance fee at any of the official payment channels. (See https://apps.cjc.edu.ph/payment−channels/ for a list of payment channels)
Be sure to follow up with Finance Office through Messenger (m.me/cjcfinanceoffice).

STEP 5.	FILL UP GUIDANCE CENTER QUESTIONNAIRE
Follow the link to the Google Form
https://sites.google.com/g.cjc.edu.ph/cjcguidance/guidance
−questionnaire
STEP 6.	SUBJECT PICKING/CLASS SCHEDULES
Coordinate with your respective program head for the list of subjects needed for the semester.
 
STEP 7.	SUBMIT ENROLMENT FORM FOR FINAL CHECKING
Proceed to the Registrar and submit enrolment form for final checking and

STEP 8.	SECURE ASSESSMENT FORM
Proceed to Assessment Section and receive assessment form

WALK-IN OR FACE TO FACE ENROLMENT PROCESS

STEP 1.	SIGNIFY INTENT TO ENROLL
Proceed to Student Services Center to secure enrolment form.

STEP 2.	FILL OUT ELECTRONIC FORM IN OLSEN (ONLINE STUDENT ENROLLMENT) SYSTEM
Proceed to ICT section and ask assistance for OLSEN entry or open https://apps.cjc.edu.ph/guide−to−olsenonline− student.../  then follow procedures. Take note of the
guidelines before proceeding to the online form.

STEP 3.	SECURE CLEARANCE TO PROCEED
(For new students and transferees, proceed to the school clinic then Go back to Student Services Center for the clearance to proceed.
STEP 4.	PAY ENTRANCE FEE
Proceed to the Cashier to pay.

STEP 5.	FILL UP GUIDANCE CENTER QUESTIONNAIRE
Proceed to Guidance Center to fill up questionnaire or Follow the link to the Google Form
https://sites.google.com/g.cjc.edu.ph/cjcguidance/guidance
−questionnaire
STEP 6.	SUBJECT PICKING/CLASS SCHEDULES
Proceed to your respective College to enroll subjects for the semester.
 
STEP 7.	SUBMIT ENROLMENT FORM FOR FINAL CHECKING
Proceed to the Registrar and submit enrolment form for final checking and

STEP 8.	SECURE ASSESSMENT FORM
Proceed to Assessment Section and receive assessment form

B.	ENROLMENT POLICIES

1.	Students who have incomplete requirements are asked to apply for temporary admission from the Student Services Center approved by the School Registrar;
2.	Students who request for cross−enrolment to another school must seek the endorsement of the Dean of the College in concurrence with the Program Head and the approval from the School Registrar;
3.	Students who decide to change program or major need a permit endorsed by the Dean of College and approved by the School Registrar;
4.	Students who request for overloads need the endorsement of the Program Head and the approval of the Dean of the College the School Registrar;
5.	The school requires all students to fully pay their back accounts before they are re−admitted to the school. In case the parent cannot fully settle his son's/daughter's accounts, the students may be temporarily enrolled. However, the parent is required to fill−out a temporary admission form and a promissory note. When the back accounts are not settled as promised, the student will be automatically dropped from the enrolment list; and
6.	The school reserves the right to refuse enrolment of students who have records of misconduct on or off campus.
C.	POLICY ON GENERAL ADMISSION AND RE-ADMISSION OF STUDENTS

1.	Cor Jesu College adopts the policy on open admission but selective retention.
2.	The College admits eligible student to any Higher Education and ITVET Programs if he/she has any of the following:
 
2.1.	He/She has academic deficiencies resulting to their disqualification to the required academic standard of the program they wish to graduate;
2.1.	He/She has major violation of school rules and regulations pursuant to the implementation of College Student Handbook Section 7, Article 1.1 on major offenses to wit: Category A. Expulsion and Category B. Exclusion;
2.1.	His/Her continued enrollment is prejudicial to his/her own health or to the health of others in the College; and
2.1.	He/She has failed to meet his/her financial obligation to the College.
3.	The College denies re−admission of students to any collegiate and vocational technology programs if he/she has any of the following:

3.1.	He/She has academic deficiencies resulting to their disqualification to the required academic standard of the program they wish to graduate;
D.	WITHDRAWAL OF CREDENTIALS AND ENROLMENT

1.	An applicant should secure a notice of withdrawal form from the Office of the Registrar and seek the signature of heads listed on the form;
2.	Credentials submitted by transferees and freshmen will only be returned if all the financial obligations, as assessed by the Finance Office, shall have been settled;
3.	For students under a penalty of suspension or expulsion, credentials shall only be released until after the lifting of the penalty;
4.	A student who transfers and withdraws, within two weeks after the beginning of classes and who has already paid the pertinent tuition and other school fees in full or for any length longer than one month may be charged ten percent of the total amount due for the term if he/she withdraws within the first week of classes, or twenty percent if within the second week of classes, regardless of whether or not he/she has actually attended the classes. The student may be charged all the school fees in full if he/she withdraws any time after the second week of classes. However, if the transfer or withdrawal is due to a justifiable reason, the student shall be charged the pertinent fees only up to and including the last month of attendance; and
5.	A student who transfers and withdraws his/her credentials must turn over their school I.D at the Student Services Center.
 
E.	ISSUANCE OF SCHOOL CREDENTIALS

1.	Certificate of Transfer Credentials (Honorable Dismissal). An applicant should file a request for a Certificate of Transfer Credentials (CTC) at the Office of the School Registrar. The Credential will be released subject to clearance from the different offices listed in the request form.
2.	Diploma and Special Orders (S.O.). An applicant should secure clearance slip from the Finance Office with the signature of the yearbook coordinator before Diploma can be released; and Diploma shall be issued only once.
3.	Transcript of Records (TOR). An applicant should secure clearance for the release of TOR.
4.	Issuance of Credentials to a Proxy. The proxy must present his/her I.D. and a copy of a Special Power of Attorney (SPA) allowing him/her to secure the documents before the documents will be released.
5.	Withholding of Credentials. The administration reserves the right to withhold the release of credentials of students, who are under investigation or administrative sanctions.
 
SECTION IV.
Class Attendance and Absences

A.	GENERAL RULES ON ATTENDANCE AND ABSENCES

1.	Regular attendance and punctuality in every subject enrolled are required of each student;
2.	Attendance is counted from the first day of regular classes;
3.	Late enrollees are admitted only within two weeks from the start of classes, provided that they will pay the corresponding fee specified;
4.	Since tardiness is not tolerated in class, students are considered absent if they are not present within the first 15 minutes of the class period. Three instances of being late, each not exceeding 15 minutes should be counted as an unexcused absence;
5.	A student who asks permission to leave his/her class after the roll call but does not return within 10 minutes from the time he/she is given permission, shall be considered absent;
6.	An absence from class whether personal or official is recorded as one absence but still subject to classification of absences;
7.	Scheduled recollections and/or retreats are considered as class hours;
8.	Attendance in non−classroom activities shall be correspondingly credited to class attendance on the day the activity is held (field trips, seminars, workshops, symposia; official sports tournaments; and other official contests, etc.) as long as the activity has approval from the school authorities, and considered official;
9.	A student is held responsible for the lesson assignment and requirement for the entire content of the course, no matter how long or for what reason his/her absence is made; and
10.	A student who has incurred absences of more than 20% of the total class hours in a given time should not be given credit for the program or subject (Article XIV, Section 73 of the Revised Manual of Regulations for Private Schools)
 
B.	MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ABSENCES ALLOWED
1. 1−unit subject	−	3 hours
2. 2−unit subject	−	7 hours
3. 3−unit subject	−	10 hours
4. 5−unit subject	−	18 hours
5. 6−unit subject	−	21 hours
6. 7−unit subject	−	24 hours
7. 8−unit subject	−	27 hours:

C.	EXCUSED ABSENCES
1.	Death of a member of the immediate family (parent, brother/sister, spouse and child);
2.	Hospitalization/illness;
3.	Doctor's order;
4.	SK members attending sessions/seminars;
5.	Attendance in seminars, retreats and recollections; and
6.	Attendance in meetings and other official representations of the college such as competitions, conferences and the like.

D.	PROCEDURES OF THE ISSUANCE OF SLIPS
1.	Excused Absence Slip. The student is required to get an excused absence slip at least within three school days after the last day of his/her absence. The student presents a medical certificate (if hospitalized) and/or an excuse letter in case of seminars, competitions, conferences, and other school official representations to the Prefect of Student Formation as a requirement for the issuance of excused absence slip.

2.	Last Chance Slip (Pink). The student presents himself/herself to the Guidance Counselor and secures a counseling slip to be given to the Prefect of Student Formation as a requirement for the issuance of last chance slip. A student is required to secure pink slip immediately after he/she is declared dropped. If a student makes another absence, he/she is dropped for good regardless of any reasons. Instructors are advised not to admit said students in their respective class/classes anymore.
 
SECTION V.
Scholarships
A.	ACADEMIC SCHOLARSHIPS

1.	Classification of Scholarships
1.1.	Full-Scholarship
1.1.1.	Senior High School Graduate with Highest Distinction provided that the school where he/she came from has 50 or more graduates;
1.1.2.	Those who obtained 85 and above percentile rank in the Cor Jesu College Freshmen Scholarship Examination;
1.1.3.	Dean's Listers with weighted average of not less than 1.34999 and with no grade lower than 1.5; and
1.1.4.	Those who won as champions in the Cor Jesu College Battle of the Academic Wizard.
1.2.	Half-Scholarship
1.2.1.	Senior High School Graduate with High Distinction provided that the school where he/she came from has 50 or more number graduates;
1.2.2.	Those who obtained 76−84 percentile rank in the Cor Jesu College Freshmen Scholarship Examination;
1.2.3.	Dean's Listers with weighted average of not less than 1.44999 with no grade lower than 1.7; and
1.2.4.	Those who won as 1st runners−ups in the Cor Jesu College Battle of the Academic Wizard

1.3.	One-Fourth-Scholarship
1.3.1.	Those who obtained 60−75 percentile rank in the Cor Jesu College Freshmen Scholarship Examination;
1.3.2.	Those who won as 2nd runners−up in the Cor Jesu College Battle of the Academic Wizard; and
1.3.3.	Those who were high school first to fifth honorable mentions.
 
2.	Requirements and Procedures for Academic Scholarships

2.1.	Requirements
Scholarships	Requirements
Senior High School graduates with	Highest	and	High
Distinction	Certification from the Principal
Cor Jesu Freshmen Scholars	Certification from the CJC Head of the Guidance and Counseling
Center
Winners	of	the	Battle	of
Academic Wizards	Certification from the Dean of
College Department
Dean’s Listers	Semestral Grades

2.2.	Procedures
2.2.1.	Submit the requirements to the Dean of College for verification and endorsement to the Finance Office; and
2.2.2.	Enrol and follow the enrolment channel.

3.	Policies on Academic Scholarship

3.1.	All academic scholarship grants are good for only one semester. Grades have to be maintained in order to be included in the Dean's List;
3.2.	The High School Valedictorian/Top 1 and Salutatorian/Top 2 should come from the graduating class with no less than 50 students in order to qualify for academic scholarship;
3.3.	The scholarship grants of the respective winners of CJC Battle of the Academic Wizard can be enjoyed by the alternate in case one of them is not desirous to study at CJC; and
3.4.	The Dean's List scholars having either full, half or one fourth tuition fee grants shall have at least 18 units as academic loads which shall include Religious Studies, Driving, Physical Education and NSTP. These are qualifying subjects in which the scholars should achieve a final grade of not less than 2.5.
3.5.	The ratio for the number of academic scholars shall be 1:100 or one (1) academic scholar for every 100−student population.
 
B.	NON-ACADEMIC SCHOLARSHIPS

1.	Scholarships, Requirements, Qualifications, and Policies

NON-ACADEMIC
SCHOLARSHIPS	REQUIREMENTS	QUALIFICATION
	−	Application Letter	− Belongs to an economically disadvantaged family
− Possesses adequate knowledge and skills needed in the office
− Has passing grades
− Has no record of misbehavior on and off campus
	−	Bio−data	
	−	Passing (previous) grades	
	−	Income Tax Return of parents	
Student	−	Certificate of Good Moral	
Assistants		Character	
	−	Results of Psychological	
	−	Test from GCC	
	−	Clearance from the –	
		Treasurer’s Office	
Band Members	−	Application form (SSC)	− Possesses adequate skill in playing band instrument
− Possesses good moral character
− Has passing grades in all subjects
− Has no record of misbehavior on and off campus
	−	Certificate of Good Moral	
		Character	
	−	Passing (previous) grades	
	−	Clearance from the Treasurer’s	
		Office	
	−	Endorsement from the	
		Moderator/Coordinator	
CJC	−	Application form (SSC)	− Possesses adequate skills in theater and dancing
− Possesses good moral character
− Has passing grades in all subjects
− Has no record of misbehavior on and off −campus
TerpsiCorean	−	Certificate of Good Moral	
Performing		Character	
Group	−	Passing (Previous) grades	
	−	Clearance from the Treasurer’s	
		Office	
	−	Endorsement from the	
		Moderator/Coordinator	
Fr. Andre
Coindre Scholars	−
−	Endorsement from head of the organization
Passing (previous) grades	− Has passing grades in all subjects
− Has no record of misbehavior on
and off campus
Athletic Scholars	− Application form (SSC)
− Attendance during practices
− Passes evaluation during the selection process
− Certificate of Good Moral Character
− Passing (previous) grades
− Endorsement from the Moderator/Coordinator
− Athletic scholarship contract
signed by the athlete	− Possesses adequate skill in playing his/her sports event
− Has no record of misbehavior on and off−campus
− Has passing grades in all enrolled subjects
− Has passing mark in the selection process
 
Scholarships	Conditions	Privileges
Student Assistants	− 444 hours apprenticeship
− No dropped subjects
− Passing performance rating
− Passing grades	− Free registration & Miscellaneous
− Scholarship good for 22 units
Band Scholars	−	Passing performance	− Free tuition (by units)
		rating	
	−	Passing grades	
	−	No dropped subjects	
CJC TerpsiCorean	−	Passing performance	−	Free tuition (by units)
Dance Ensemble		rating		
	−	Passing grades		
	−	No dropped subjects		
Athletic Scholars	− Passing performance rating
− Passing grades
− Attendance in practices and official games
− No dropped subjects	− Free uniform
− Free tuition (by units)
− Free allowance for outside competitions
Fr. Andre	−	Passing grades	−	Free tuition
Coindre	−	No dropped subjects		

2.	Privileges and Conditions

3.	Policies on Non-Academic Scholarship

3.1.	Non−academic scholar can enjoy one scholarship at a time by choosing whichever has higher privileges.
3.2.	A student can be member of the TerpsiCorean Performing Group or the Red Ambassador Band even without incentives;
3.3.	The school will refund a CJC scholar with outside scholarship.
3.4.	A scholar who has an approved load below the prescribed units given them cannot enjoy refund from the school. However, they can use them for paying other school fees;
3.5.	A scholar who failed in his/her subject/s of the previous semester and was accepted for a valid reason in the succeeding semester is required to pay for the failed subject/s when he/she will re−enroll it;
3.6.	A non−academic scholar who is found guilty of grave offense on and off campus will be removed from the list of scholars;
3.7.	All student assistants are prohibited to engage in any fraternity and sorority that practices hazing. A student assistant who will be
 
caught violating this policy will be dismissed from the scholarship after due process has been conducted; and
3.8.	A Non−Academic Scholarship is only for one semester and renewable thereafter
3.9.	A non−Academic Scholarship is limited to the curriculum year of the program to which the student−scholar is enrolled.
4.	Subject Loads, Grades, Duties, and Responsibilities

4.1.	Student Assistants
4.1.1.	An apprentice must have a minimum of 18−unit load during the regular semester and a maximum of 6−unit load during summer;
4.1.2.	A regular SA must have a minimum of 18 and maximum of 22−unit load every semester and maximum of 6 during summer;
4.1.3.	An apprentice and regular SA must work at least 4 hours every school day regardless of subject loads;
4.1.4.	Assignment to or transfer from one office to another requires approval from the Office of the Human Resource Department; and
4.1.5.	Incomplete grades must be completed before the start of the succeeding semester.
4.2.	Band Members, Dance Troupe and Athletic Scholars
4.2.1.	They must have a minimum of 12 and a maximum of 22− unit load. Otherwise, the scholar needs the approval from the Director for Student Services;
4.2.2.	They must have no incomplete grades before the start of the preceding semester; and
4.2.3.	They must be available for practices and official performances.

4.3.	Fr. Andre Coindre and other non-academic school scholars
4.3.1.	They must have a maximum of 22−unit load every semester; and
4.3.2.	They must have no incomplete and failing grades before the succeeding semester.
 
5.	Evaluation and Termination of Non-Academic Scholars

5.1.	Non−academic scholars are evaluated according to the criteria set by the school before the end of each semester by the moderators or coaches or heads of office;
5.2.	A non−academic scholar who wants to stop during the semester, especially in the case of SA, must give an official notice one month before officially resigning; and
5.3.	A non−academic scholar who is convicted of violating any school policy on and off campus will be removed from the list of scholars.

6.	Requirements for Renewal of Scholarship

6.1.	Evaluation of the office heads or moderators or coaches;
6.2.	Grades in all the subjects taken from the previous semester; and
6.3.	Submission of filled−out application form to the Student Servicer Center and/or Human Resource Office.
 
SECTION VI.
Institutional Rules and Norms
A.	RIGHTS AND FREEDOM OF STUDENTS
The rights and freedom of students are to be exercised with responsibility and prudence. The students should not use them to discredit their fellow students, the College and its school personnel, or to prevent them from performing the roles and functions required of them. Any violation thereof is a ground for investigation and sanctions as specified in this College Student Handbook. Cor Jesu College recognizes these rights and freedom:
1.	The privilege to be admitted and retained in the College is subject to the specific provisions stipulated in this College Student Handbook and those that may be promulgated by the institution;
2.	The student has the right to be protected from disclosure of personal data, academic grades, counseling, disciplinary and other school records to anybody without his or her approval;
3.	He/She has the right to be protected against improper academic evaluation and to know their evaluation or grades right after the deadline for submission of grades set by the College Dean. A student may appeal for a grade he/she thinks was unfairly and mistakenly given by the teacher;
4.	He/she has the right to be protected against unprofessional and unethical conduct of school personnel like the following:

4.1.	Consistent failure of the teacher to meet his/her class without reasonable explanation;
4.2.	Discriminatory or prejudicial actions of the teacher against the student/s inside the classroom;
4.3.	Consistent failure of the teacher to present learning materials relevant to the course, and consistent failure of the teacher to present test results and grades;
4.4.	All immoral acts like sexual harassment, oral defamation and the like, committed by the school personnel to the student/s; and
4.5.	He/she has the right to participate in the review or formulation of rules or policies that directly affect their welfare. The College Student Government President is the official representative of the students in the following:
 
4.5.1.	Coordinating Council for College Affairs (COCOCOA);
4.5.2.	Students Services Council;
4.5.3.	Student Disciplinary Board; and
4.5.4.	Student Financial Assistance
5.	He/she has the right to enjoy freedom of expression, membership of organizations and clubs and in the election of class and CSG officers and associations, provided that the requirements specified by the school are complied with; and
6.	No student shall be subjected to disciplinary action, like suspension, exclusion and expulsion without due process as stipulated in this handbook and explained in the Manual of Regulations for Private Schools.
B.	PROPER CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOR

1.	Conduct inside the school
As a Catholic Educational Institution, the school trains and forms students to be responsible citizens of the community and the country as a whole. Thus, good manners and right conduct must be observed by the students at all times in dealing with visitors, school personnel and co− students. Any infraction of the school rules and policies by the students is subject to investigation by the school personnel and must be given corresponding interventions upon the recommendation of the school authorities. The following are expected of a CJC student:
1.1.	He/she	must	not	utter	offensive,	vulgar,	indecent	or blasphemous words;
1.2.	He/she is not allowed to whistle, howl or make abusive or offensive remarks at anybody;
1.3.	He/she is prohibited from bringing pornographic pictures and materials inside the campus;
1.4.	The areas exclusively for ladies are off−limits to men. At no instance should male students intrude upon the privacy of the ladies in these places. Likewise, this is also true for areas exclusively for men;
1.5.	In areas like classrooms, corridors, library, laboratories, piazza and areas near the classrooms, students are prohibited to make unnecessary noise such as whistling, boisterous conversations, loud talking, laughing, singing and other forms of disturbances when classes or examinations are going on;
 
1.6.	Students are prohibited in staying in classrooms and laboratories after the last period in the evening classes unless given permission by the school authorities for their use;
1.7.	Students are prohibited from staying in dark places, inside parked vehicles and in unlighted rooms or corners;
1.8.	Students are prohibited from scandalous display of amorous behavior
1.9.	Students must refrain from depiction or portrayal of licentiousness or lewdness on stage or within the school campus;
1.10.	Students are expected to take extra care in using school property. Thus, they must not perform any acts that will cause harm or destruction to the school property;
1.11.	Students must properly return all borrowed furniture like chairs, tables and others to their respective places after use;
1.12.	Students must secure permission from the Student Services Center for the use of the public address system;
1.13.	Students are expected to take good care of the school surroundings. Thus, they must avoid littering in the campus. They are requested to follow the “Clean−as You−Go” (CLAY−GO) program of the school. They are encouraged to segregate and throw their garbage properly;
1.14.	Students are prohibited from smoking and drinking liquor at all times inside the school campus. They are also prohibited from smoking in at least 100 meters from the campus. (CMO No. 63, S. 2007);
1.15.	Students are not allowed to indulge in any form of gambling inside the campus.
1.16.	Students are prohibited to join in any fraternities, sororities and any groups or associations that practice hazing as these are detrimental to their well−being;
1.17.	Students are formed to be prayerful. Thus, they are required to join masses, prayer meetings, retreats and recollections. They are also required to pray the Angelus which is part of the tradition of Cor Jesu College. They should remain still when they hear the prayer. The non−Catholics are expected to stay put and remain silent; and
1.18.	Students who invite guests from outside the campus as lecturers, speakers of seminar, are required to submit a letter to the Director for Student Services for the approval of the activity. The letter should contain the names of persons involved, the purposes of their activity and expected time of arrival and
 
departure of the guests. If they are VIPs' or high−ranking public officials, the organizing group must coordinate with the Special Assistant on Security Matters for safety and security of the visitor(s).
C.	CLASSROOM DISCIPLINE

1.	Students should be prompt in attending their classes by going to their respective classrooms on the first bell. If the instructor is late for 15 minutes after the second bell, the class is considered dismissed. In cases where the instructor sends a word for the class to wait, then the students must wait;
2.	The students are not allowed to crowd at the entrance and places adjacent of each classroom before the first bell;
3.	Students should do transactions (other than academics) with fellow students during the break, and not during class hours;
4.	Students shall bring with them pens and pieces of paper, calculators and other needed classroom materials;
5.	Students are prohibited from eating inside the classroom, library and laboratories, unless given permission by the school authorities or as part of the classroom processes or demonstrations;
6.	Any student who wishes to address a class or make an announcement must secure a written note containing the recommendations of the DSS and the approval of the Dean of College. This must be shown to the instructor before addressing the class;
7.	Students are expected to respond only when acknowledged by the teacher.
8.	Students who do not cooperate with ordinary classroom procedures and those who show disrespectful conduct, may be sent to the Prefect of Student Formation. A student who is sent out from class must hand−carry a written note from the Prefect of Student Formation authorizing him/her to enter the class at the next meeting;
9.	Students who do not wear any of the following: Prescribed uniform, ribbon, CJC pin, I.D., cord, shoes are not allowed to enter the classroom unless they have an approved uniform dispensation slip from the Prefect of Student Formation or the Director for Student Services;
10.	Students must practice honesty by heart. Any student caught cheating shall be given zero in a particular test without prejudice of being investigated by the Prefect of Student Formation and given
 
commensurate intervention if and when found responsible for doing such action;
11.	Writing or carving on chairs, tables, walls and destroying them in whatever ways are forms of vandalism, which are prohibited. Any student caught will be investigated;
12.	Students should switch off their mobile phones/mobile multimedia players in the classroom, library and laboratories. Laptop, notebooks, cellular phones and the like may be permitted when use for instructional purposes;
13.	Students are prohibited from putting their feet on chairs, tables and walls, and sitting on the arms of chairs;
14.	Students are allowed to use the chalkboard/whiteboard for educational purposes only;
15.	The students are asked to switch off the ceiling fans and lights in the classrooms when they are not being used; and
16.	All Students are not allowed to take the final examination without an examination permit. In the absence of an examination permit, a student must get a promissory note from the Finance Office to be able to take the examination. (“No Permit No Exam Policy”).

D.	CONDUCT OUTSIDE THE SCHOOL CAMPUS

1.	The student who is enrolled in the College has the responsibility of safeguarding the name and upholding the reputation of CJC. The students are expected to have known and integrated the shared beliefs and core values of the school. Therefore, they are expected to behave according to these beliefs and values; and
2.	The student is held responsible for his/ her misconduct and unlawful activities outside the campus. Any complaint of scandalous behavior or misconduct outside the campus will be investigated by the Student Disciplinary Board.

E.	GOOD GROOMING
1.	Gentlemen are required to have a regular haircut prescribed by the school.
2.	Social norms dictate that the use of make−up, lipstick, and the plucking or shaving of eyebrows will only be for ladies unless men are required to use these for educational purposes;
 
3.	Male students are prohibited from wearing earrings or face rings on the school campus and during school−sponsored activities outside the campus;
4.	All Students are not allowed to color their hair with unnatural color for whatever reason unless otherwise they are needed for school special events or other presentation related to school activities. (They are given only one week to recolor their hair to natural color after the activity that they have participated); and
5.	Gentlemen Criminology students are required to have their regular army haircut or white sidewall (4x7).

F.	RULES ON SCHOOL UNIFORM AND ATTIRE DURING NON-UNIFORM DAYS

1.	The standard campus uniforms are as follows:
For the ladies:
1.1.	School prescribed blouse and skirt, crimson red ribbon (v−form) with CJC pin, BLACK SHOES, with school ID. The edge of the skirt should be three inches below the knee; and
1.2.	The crimson red ribbon should measure three inches in length, half inch in width, slanted cut, one inch apart. It is pinned by a school seal between the collars of the blouse.

For the gentlemen:
1.3.	School prescribed white, short−sleeved, loose polo shirt with pocket, and a PLAIN WHITE UNDER SHIRT. These are worn with loose gray slack pants, black shoes, socks, CJC pin and school ID.

2.	Wednesday Attire (uniform−free day)
2.1.	Female students are allowed to wear any decent attire such as full chest, skirt and blouse with sleeves, polo shirt and long pair of pants, worn with the school ID and a pair of shoes or a pair of sandals. See−through clothing, t−shirts, tight mini−skirts, shorts, tattered pants, plunging neckline, sleeveless and hanging skirts/blouses, slippers are prohibited among female students; and
 
2.2.	Male students are allowed to wear any decent attire such as, polo, polo shirt or long sleeves worn with the school ID and a pair of shoes. Sleeveless, t−shirts, hanging shirts, tattered pants, short pants, cross dresses, see−through clothing, sandals, slippers are prohibited among male students.
3.	Saturday and Sunday Attire

3.1.	CSP Students are required to wear school uniform with ID. PE uniform shall only be used during PE classes after which students are asked to change and wear again the school uniform during their other classes;

3.2.	Regular Students entering the campus on Saturdays and Sundays for organizational or class activities and other official activities of the school, are required to wear decent and appropriate attire. Allowed and prohibited attires during Wednesdays hold true during these days. Students are allowed to wear decent t−shirts or their organizational or college/program customized shirts either with or without collars.

This provision holds true as well during other non−uniform days for on−campus or off−campus activities, such as family day, intramural activities, foundation day, recollection, community engagements and other activities and celebrations that do not require wearing of uniform.
4.	Uniform for Other Programs.

4.1.	Uniform of students for BS−HRM, BSN, BS−Criminology and Technical Vocational Education is specified by the school. Please refer to the Dean of the College for details;

4.2.	The school uniform must be worn within the school premises and in all school functions unless otherwise permitted by those in authority;
4.3.	Entrance of a student to the campus shall be denied when he/she is not wearing the complete uniform.  He/she is only allowed
 
entrance when issued a uniform dispensation slip by the Prefect of Student Formation or the Director for Students Services;

4.4.	Non−wearing of school uniform may be allowed for students who are involved in stage presentation and in preparation for extra and co−curricular activities. However, they are required to present a letter to the teacher approved by the Prefect of Student Formation or the Director for Student Services;
4.5.	The student who is working outside the school may be exempted from wearing school uniform but is required to wear his/her office uniform. To get an exemption, he/she is required to submit a certificate of employment to the Prefect of Student Formation to be approved by the Director of Students Services. In the absence of an office uniform, the student is required to wear the school uniform;

4.6.	A pregnant student who is allowed to continue her studies in the school is exempted from wearing school uniform and is required instead to wear maternity dress;

4.7.	Students who are on−the−job training (OJT) and those who are in their practicum years must wear their OJT and Practicum uniform when entering the campus;
4.8.	P.E. students should wear a standard uniform prescribed by the administration. They shall wear their uniform during their class schedules. P.E. uniform will only be worn during P.E. classes;

4.9.	Students are prohibited from wearing t−shirts or any attire with vulgar words or pictures and sketches that portray pornography; and

4.10.	A student who deviates from the prescribed attire is prohibited from entering the campus. Any student who has gained entrance and has not followed the rules will be asked to report to the Prefect of Student Formation or to the Director for Student Services.
 
G.	WEARING OF SCHOOL ID WITH CORD, PIN AND RIBBON FOR WOMEN

1.	The wearing of school ID with CJC cord, school pin, and ribbon which is exclusive for women is mandatory inside the campus on all days except on Wednesdays and weekends when only IDs are required;
2.	The student who does not have the ID because of the late issuance must secure dispensation slip from the Prefect of Student Formation;
3.	The lending and borrowing of ID from another student are prohibited;
4.	The student who loses his/her ID must report immediately to the Student Services Center. The following must be complied with:

7.1.	Submit an affidavit of loss;
7.2.	Fill−out requisition form;
7.3.	Pay at the cashier;
7.4.	Proceed to CIMS for printing; and
7.5.	Proceed to the Student Services Center for issuance of ID validation sticker.
5.	Validation sticker for ID is changed every semester and is given only to enroled students of the College.

H.	SCHOOL PUBLICATIONS

This refers to all printed, mimeographed or photocopied materials published by the school or by the students for on or off−campus circulation. Included are the various materials used to inform the community about the activities on − or off−campus.
1.	Posting and Distribution of Materials
1.1.	Announcement for posting and distribution must have clearance from the Student Services Center and it must be properly signed. Neither initials nor aliases or incomplete name of author of article will be allowed;
1.2.	The College allows posting only of advertisement of materials and commodities related to education and community welfare, school supplies and equipment; and
1.3.	Students' Bulletin board will be used for announcement written on paper or presentable materials.
2.	Ethical Guidelines for Campus Journalism
The College forms young journalists who are guided by the institution's beliefs, core values and by the basic principles of responsible journalism.
 
2.1.	Articles, pictures and illustrations should uphold Christian moral values and promote the Vision, Mission and Core Values of the College;
2.2.	Articles of publications must be accurate, impartial and well− researched;
2.3.	Attacks on the person or any member of the community like students, school and its personnel should be avoided;
2.4.	Complete name of the author must be written or indicated in the article such as opinion or comments he/she has submitted; and
2.5.	The proper choice of themes and the use of decent language, expressed in correct grammar befitting the school must be observed at all times.


3.	Legal Guidelines Based from Republic Act Number 7079

3.1.	The staff of the publication shall be responsible to the school and to the third parties for its decisions, actions, policies and legal consequences arising from such;
3.2.	Tertiary student publications are founded on accepted journalism principles and ethical practices and are regulated by the laws on journalism and press freedom;
3.3.	Editorial policies shall see to it that the news are reported accurately and verified carefully. Reports which are libelous or violating the person's right to privacy or adversely affect private reputation shall be avoided;
3.4.	The school administration shall not be held responsible or accountable for any breach of law or regulation pertaining to press or media matters. The editorial board jointly shall be held responsible for the contents of the student's or school's publication. The editorial board consists of the following:
3.4.1.	Editor−in−Chief
3.4.2.	Associate Editor
3.4.3.	Managing Editor
3.4.4.	Opinion Editor
3.4.5.	News Editor
3.4.6.	Feature Editor
3.4.7.	Sports Editor
 
3.4.8.	Photojournalist
3.4.9.	Cartoonist
3.4.10.	Staff Writers
3.4.11.	Moderator/Technical Adviser
3.5.	Member of the school publication staff must maintain his/her satisfactory academic standing in order to retain membership in the staff;
3.6.	To promote the philosophy, beliefs and values of the College, it only allows school publication to operate in the campus; and
3.7.	In case of grave violations of the law of the press/media, public policy and school rules, and if found responsible for doing such by a competent body, the student concerned shall be subjected to disciplinary action by the College.
I.	RELEASING OF TRANSFER CREDENTIALS PROHIBITION
The release of the transfer credentials of any student may be withheld for reasons of student disciplinary sanctions such suspension, exclusion or expulsion. Non−payment of financial obligations of students to the school is also a ground for withholding student’s transfer credentials. The credentials shall be released as soon as his/her obligation shall have been settled or the penalty of suspension, exclusion or expulsion lifted.

J.	RELEASING OF SCHOOL RECORD OF STUDENTS
1.	A student records such as grades, disciplinary cases documents and other school records or documents are confidential. Therefore, they can only be released upon request of the students’ concerned;
2.	If a student is still a minor, his/her parents or guardians have the right to access his/her school records even without his or her permission; and
3.	If a student is of legal age, his or her student records cannot be revealed or released to anybody even to his or her parents, guardians, siblings and relatives without his or her permission. Any person who wishes to get a student’s school records must secure special power of attorney (SPA) before the school will entertain the request.
 
SECTION VII.
Violations, Disciplinary, and Intervention Measures
A.	CLASSIFICATIONS OF OFFENSES

1.	Major Offenses
1.1.	Category A
Students who are found responsible for committing major offense under category A are subject for expulsion. The following are examples of offenses under this category:

1.1.1.	Using, possessing, distributing or peddling illegal drugs or hallucinogenic agents;
1.1.2.	Carrying deadly weapons, firearms, explosives and components thereof, as well as knife or bolo within the school campus, except if they are being used for class purposes and approved by school authorities;
1.1.3.	Direct assault upon any member of the school community or grave threats to inflict harm on other's life or property such as death threats, Hostage Taking, kidnapping and black−mail of any forms;
1.1.4.	Molesting or sexually harassing someone in the school campus.
1.1.5.	Stealing money from any person or from the funds of the organizations, test papers, reports and other school records.
1.1.6.	Forging or altering documents like admission slips, transcript of records, honorable dismissal, examination permits, clearances, official receipts;
1.1.7.	Malversation	of	funds of	the	school	clubs and organizations and the like;
1.1.8.	Leading or participating in illegal or unauthorized assemblies and/or strikes;
1.1.9.	Harassing the school community or picketing at the entrance or exit of the College;
 
1.1.10.	Immoral and vulgar sexual acts inside or outside the campus such as:
a.	Pre−marital sex
b.	Prostitution
c.	Having sexual activities with members of the same sex or gender
1.1.11.	Hazing of any kind either inside or outside of the school campus or recruitment of a student to join any unrecognized organization, fraternity, sorority that practices hazing;
1.1.12.	Libel or malicious defamation expressed either in writing, printing or by signs or pictures which clearly demeans the dignity of the person;
1.1.13.	Acts of subversion, insurgency, insurrection or rebellion including possession or distribution of subversive materials.;
1.1.14.	Final conviction before any court for a criminal offense;
1.1.15.	All acts committed by any student in violation of the Revised Penal Code of the Philippines; and
1.1.16.	Any crime or misdemeanor committed by the students not found in this handbook but is considered by the Student Disciplinary Board as under this category.

1.2.	Category B
Students who are found responsible for committing major offense under category B are subject for exclusion. The following are examples of offenses under this category:
1.2.1.	Fighting or any violent acts causing physical injury and group fighting;
1.2.2.	An act of conspiring together to dishonor or malign the school and its personnel or his/her fellow students either in speech, writing or through the use of social media;
1.2.3.	Bringing of alcoholic drinks without permission from the school authorities and drinking or being intoxicated with liquor;
1.2.4.	Vandalism and destruction of school property, like tearing off or defacing any school documents such as books, journals, reports and the like, writing or carving or drawing on the walls and furniture and the like;
1.2.5.	Forcible entry into the College campus;
 
1.2.6.	Unauthorized collection of money or other instruments used as equivalent for money from other students or any member of the school community;
1.2.7.	Consistent disregard or willful infringement of established policies, rules and regulations consisting in the commission of three (3) minor transgressions of the same kind or nature, or five (5) minor transgressions of different kinds or nature;
1.2.8.	Willful failure to comply with summons or notices issued for purposes of investigation conducted in relation with discipline−related misdemeanors;
1.2.9.	Publication or circulation of false and inaccurate information about his/her fellow students or about the school and its school personnel;
1.2.10.	Possession and distribution of libelous publications, writings or other materials;
1.2.11.	Showing, exhibiting or exposing nudity or nakedness in print media and social media such as youtube, facebook and others which causes scandal to the school and the school community;
1.2.12.	Bribing or accepting bribe from fellow student or school personnel in exchange of grades and other favors;
1.2.13.	Threatening, terrorizing or intimidating any person in the school community;
1.2.14.	Sending emails or posting comments with the intent of scaring, hurting, or intimidating someone else including cyber bullying; and
1.2.15.	Any crime or misdemeanor committed by the students not found in these lists but is considered by the Student Disciplinary Board as under this category.

1.3.	Category C
Students who are found responsible for committing major offense under category C are subject for suspension or other sanctions as determined by the Student Disciplinary Board. The following are examples of offenses under this category:
1.3.1.	Dishonesty like cheating during examination, stealing money intended for tuition without the knowledge of the parents and benefactors;
 
1.3.2.	Gambling in any form inside the campus.
1.3.3.	Smoking inside the campus or at least within 100 meters from the campus. (CMO No. 63, S. 2007);
1.3.4.	Staying on the campus beyond the curfew hours or overnight without permission from the school authorities;
1.3.5.	Public display of intimate and amorous gestures that cause scandal to other students and school personnel;
1.3.6.	Possession or distribution of pornographic materials;
1.3.7.	Using another person's ID, lending ID to another, using two or more IDs;
1.3.8.	Not reporting to contest participated by the school without valid reason and approval of the school authorities;
1.3.9.	Maligning the Catholic Church, her teachings and practices as well as her ministers; and
1.3.10.	Any crime or misdemeanor committed by the students not found in these lists but is considered by the Student Disciplinary Board as under this category.

2.	Minor Offenses - Suspension
The following are considered minor offenses:

2.1.	Violating the campus dress code;
2.2.	Failure to wear the ID inside the campus;
2.3.	Posting of unauthorized notices, announcements on boards or posting of announcements outside the authorized bulletin board;
2.4.	Throwing of garbage outside the trashcans;
2.5.	Unauthorized use of bulletin boards;
2.6.	Loitering in corridors during class sessions;
2.7.	Putting up of feet on chairs and tables or sitting on the arm of the chair.
2.8.	Improper use of cellular phones and other electronic devices during class sessions;
2.9.	Wearing of earrings/face rings for men inside the campus;
2.10.	Wearing of face rings or multiple earrings for women;
2.11.	Unauthorized removal or tampering of notices posted for information;
2.12.	Representing the school in meetings or conferences without authorization;
 
2.13.	Wearing or using important identification or symbol of the school such as banner, zeal or using the name of the school without permission;
2.14.	Unauthorized use of school property and equipment;
2.15.	Use of classrooms and other school facilities for any purpose without any reservation or proper authorization;
2.16.	Smoking including e−cigarettes inside the school premises;
2.17.	Selling items, engaging in business or soliciting contributions or donations in campus without prior approval of authority; and
2.18.	Any crime or misdemeanor committed by the students not found in these lists but is considered by the Student Disciplinary Board as under this category.

B.	SANCTIONS
The following are the general sanctions to be imposed to students who are found liable or accountable for an offense:

1.	Expulsion. The sanction imposed to a student liable of an offense by excluding him/her from admission to any public or private school in the country;
2.	Exclusion. The sanction imposed to a student liable of an offense by simply dropping his/her name from the roll of the college students for being undesirable;
3.	Suspension. The sanction imposed to a student liable of an offense by depriving him/her to enter the school for a period of time;
4.	Disqualification from holding or seeking any position in the student government or clubs and organizations;
5.	Disqualification to join in different school competitions and other extra−curricular activities;
6.	Removal from school's scholarship in case the responsible student is a scholar; and
7.	Not allowing the student to participate in graduation ceremonies and related activities if he/she is a graduating student under disciplinary intervention procedure.
 
C.	FORMATIVE INTERVENTION PROCESS
The following are the corrective measures and formative intervention processes for students who are found responsible / liable of an offense:
1.	For Expulsion Category
1.1.	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
1.2.	Counseling session with the Guidance Counselor;
1.3.	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable); and
1.4.	Dismissal from the roster of the College.

2.	For Exclusion Category
2.1.	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
2.2.	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable);
2.3.	Suspension from attending classes for two (2) weeks;
2.4.	Community service for 120 hours to be coursed through the Br. Polycarp Community Development Foundation;
2.5.	Individual or personal learning activity at the library during days of class suspension;
2.6.	Submission of reflection paper to the Guidance and Counseling Center; and
2.7.	Counseling Session with the Guidance Counselor.

3.	For Suspension Category
3.1.	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
3.2.	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable);
3.3.	Suspension from attending classes for five (5) days;
3.4.	Community Service for 40 hours to be coursed through the Br. Polycarp Community Development Foundation;
3.5.	Individual or personal learning activity at the library during days of class suspension;
3.6.	Submission of reflection paper to the Guidance and Counseling Center; and
3.7.	Counseling Session with the Guidance Counselor.
 
4.	For Minor Offenses
4.1.	First Offense
4.1.1.	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
4.1.2.	Suspension from attending classes for two (2) days;
4.1.3.	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable);
4.1.4.	Community Service for 8 hours to be coursed through the Prefect of Student Formation;
4.1.5.	Individual or personal learning activity at the library during days of class suspension;
4.1.6.	Submission of reflection paper to the Guidance and Counseling Center; and
4.1.7.	Counseling Session with the Guidance Counselor
4.2.	Second Offense
4.2.1	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
4.2.2	Suspension from attending classes for Five (5) days
4.2.3	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable);
4.2.4	Community Service for 12hours to be coursed through the Prefect of Student Formation;
4.2.5	Individual or personal learning activity at the library during days of class suspension;
4.2.6	Submission of reflection paper to the Guidance and Counseling Center; and
4.2.7	Counseling Session with the Guidance Counselor

4.3.	Third Offense
4.3.1.	Submission of letter of apology to the Prefect of Student Formation;
4.3.2.	Suspension from attending classes for ten (10) days
4.3.3.	Payment for actual damage of property/facility or any offense involving money (if applicable);
4.3.4.	Community Service for 16hours to be coursed through the Br. Polycarp Community Development Foundation;
4.3.5.	Individual or personal learning activity at the Library during days of class suspension;
4.3.6.	Submission of reflection paper to the Guidance and Counseling Center; and
 
4.3.7.	Counseling Session with the Guidance Counselor.

For fourth offense and above, formative intervention for exclusion category shall be applied.

D.	DETERMINING THE VIOLATION

1.	The faculty members have the right to evaluate and censure their students for any minor violation;
2.	With regard to academic matters, the Dean of College assumes the responsibility of determining the nature of the offense committed by the student;
3.	The Student Disciplinary Board, upon the recommendation of the Prefect of Student Formation, shall have the duty to hear and decide the cases. The decision of the Board may be appealed to the Office of the President; and
4.	The evaluation of the violation will be based on the mitigating and aggravating circumstances and evidences to be determined by the Student Disciplinary Board.

E.	JURISDICTION OF THE CASES
1.	Academic problems: College Dean
2.	Faculty problems: College Dean
3.	Non−academic and other problems of students: Director for Student Services

F.	STUDENT DISCIPLINARY BOARD

1.	Functions and duties
1.1.	Investigates cases referred by the Prefect of Student Formation and within its jurisdiction;
1.2.	Recommends sanctions for the accused to the President of the School; and
1.3.	Submits policy recommendations (crafting, innovation, improvement) to the Director of Student Services pertaining to student discipline and decorum of the school.
 
2.	Composition
2.1.	Director for Student Services as chairperson
2.2.	Dean of College (Vice−Chairperson)
2.3.	Prefect of Student Formation
2.4.	Representative from the faculty
2.5.	Representative from the staff
2.6.	Guidance Counselor
2.7.	CSG President or his/her representative

3.	Procedural Due Process
3.1.	The student must be informed in writing of the nature and cause of the accusation against him/her;
3.2.	The student must be informed of his/her right to answer the charges against him/her, with the assistance of a counsel, if desired;
3.3.	The student must be told of the evidence against him/her;
3.4.	The student must be told of his/her right to present evidence for his/her own behalf;
3.5.	Evidences must be considered by the Student Disciplinary Board; and
3.6.	Upon completion of the investigation, the student must be informed about the findings and recommendations of the members of the board. He/she will also be informed of her right to make an appeal about the decision to be submitted to the school president. If a student is a minor, his or her parents are required to attend during the hearing and other meetings. If the student is of legal age, his or parents can participate in the hearing and investigation upon request and with the approval of the student.

G.	PREGNANT STUDENTS
For Pregnant Students who are given consideration by the Student Disciplinary Board (SDB) to continue their studies in school, the following must be complied:

1.	Letter of intent to continue schooling noted by the parents or guardian;
2.	Conference with the Prefect together the parent or guardian;
3.	Notarized affidavit of waiver, relinquishing one’s right for any claim and
releasing liability of the school whenever there be untoward incident
 
that might happened during the course of pregnancy while continuing the schooling;
4.	Medical Certificate signifying fitness to undergo any tedious or strenuous activity in the school (every month); and
5.	Counseling session with the Guidance Counselor to cater and assess
one’s psycho−emotional condition and the like.
 
SECTION VIII.
Organizations and Interest Clubs
Organizations and Interest Clubs are duly accredited by the school to provide avenue for students to harness their talents, integrate the core values of the institution and develop their potentials for compassionate leadership.
A.	CLASSIFICATIONS OF ORGANIZATIONS AND INTEREST CLUBS

1.	Religious Organizations (Non-Academic Organizations)
These are organizations that promote the teachings of the Catholic Church and the Charism of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart. They assist the Sacred Heart Formation and Mission Office in the liturgical and other spiritual formation of the students, the school personnel and the whole school community. They also provide services to communities outside CJC.
2.	Socio-Civic Organizations (Non-Academic Organizations)
These organizations develop students to be socially responsible, culturally literate, politically involved, environmentally educated and community immersed making them witnesses of the compassionate love of God. Thus, they also help the school community in reaching out to those persons in need of their help, services and expertise.

3.	Academic Organizations
These clubs provide avenues for common search for excellence in their fields of specialization through quiz bees, fora, seminars and other effective means or opportunities for academic development. They assist the college in their academic services and other activities of the students. In doing so, the members of the clubs and organizations will enhance their knowledge, skills and expertise to prepare them as effective professionals and intellectual advocates of education in society.

4.	Student Councils or Student Governments
Student Councils are the armed wing of the Student Services Center, the Colleges and the school in general in bringing the concern of the students to the administration and vice−versa. They promote student activities  that  enhance  the  leadership  and  other  skills  and
 
competencies of the students in partnership with the Student Services Center. This is the highest student organization of the school and the other clubs and organizations are under its supervision. The College Student Government exists to serve the following objectives:
4.1.	To safeguard the students' welfare in the formulation and implementation of the school policies;
4.2.	To serve as a forum of students' opinion for the improvement of the Cor Jesu College community;
4.3.	To establish rapport between the students and the administration;
4.4.	To assist the duly constituted authorities in the implementation of the school rules for the maintenance of a harmonious academic community;
4.5.	To assist the Student Services Center in the planning and implementation of non−academic activities and other extra− curricular activities designed to enhance the growth and the welfare of the students; and
4.6.	To provide the students with opportunities for a healthy interaction needed in the building of a harmonious community.

B.	REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCREDITATION OF CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS
1.	Each organization must have a Constitution and By−laws;
2.	The objectives of the organization/club must be aligned with the Vision, Mission, Goals and Objectives of the College Department;
3.	The organization/club must have a moderator(s), who is/are employed in Cor Jesu College. Their designation must be approved by the Director of Student Services; and
4.	The organization/club must submit a list of moderator(s), officers, members, Operational or Action Plans (with proposed budget), Calendar of Activities as well as proposed projects and research for the whole year.
 
C.	REQUIREMENTS FOR AFFILIATED CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS

The organization/club that has local, regional or national affiliation may be accredited as a legitimate group of the school provided that the following requirements are complied with:
1.	Manual for the Standard Training Procedure that includes all the rituals used for accepting members;
2.	Notarized statement that hazing of any form is not used for acceptance of members;
3.	Organizational chart which the club/group is affiliated with;
4.	List of officers of the organization which the club is affiliated; and
5.	Compliance with the requirements as listed above.
D.	PROCEDURES ON ACCREDITATION OF ORGANIZATIONS

1.	Filing out of Application form;
2.	Submission of accomplished application form at the Student Services Center with attachments of the requirements within fifteen (15) days from the start of regular class;
3.	Assessment of submitted documents by Student Activity Coordinator within ten (10) days from the date of deadline of submission;
4.	The Student Activity Coordinator endorses application to the Student Services Council for the approval and official recognition;
5.	Sending of evaluation results and issuance of certificate of recognition or accreditation to the respective organization;
6.	In case of dis−accreditation, there will be an appeal period for five (5) working days and comply the following:
6.1.	The concerned student organization must submit a formal letter of appeal to the Student Activity Coordinator.
6.2.	The Student Activity Coordinator shall act on the appeal within three (3) working days from the receipt of the appeal. During this period the officers of the concerned organization may be invited for a dialogue.
6.3.	The Student Activity Coordinator shall communicate the decision to the concerned organization through a formal letter.
 
E.	REQUIREMENTS FOR RE-ACCREDITATION OF CLUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS
1.	A club or organization is re−accredited if the following requirements are compiled:
1.1.	Operational Plans and Budgets
1.2.	Annual Performance Reports
1.3.	Financial Reports
1.4.	Lists of New Officers and Members and moderator
1.5.	Updated Constitution and by−laws (if any)
2.	A club that cannot comply with the above requirements for the set deadline will be informed about their deficit and will be given extension; and
3.	In case the clubs or organizations cannot submit the required documents for re−accreditation after the extended period, they will be put in a probationary status for one year. If after a year, they cannot still submit the required documents, they will be removed from the lists of accredited clubs and organizations.

F.	QUALIFICATIONS OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS
1.	Only bona fide students currently enrolled in the College Department may become officers and members;
2.	Officers must have a minimum load of 15 units every semester.
3.	They must be students of Cor Jesu College for at least one semester prior to the holding of office;
4.	Officers could handle major positions in only two organizations or clubs except the presidency. A president of an interest club or organization cannot handle the same position with other interest club or organization; and
5.	Officers who have not been sanctioned by the school for any major infraction of school regulations are eligible for any position.
 
G.	ELECTION OF CLUB/ORGANIZATION OFFICERS

1.	The election of the College Student Government (CSG) should be guided by the approved CSG−COMELEC guidelines and is conducted at the later part of the second semester;
2.	The election of the organization officers should be governed by their approved Constitution and By−laws and is conducted at the later part of the second semester; and
3.	The election must be conducted at the end of the second semester.
H.	FUNCTIONS OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS

1.	The responsibilities of the organization and club officers and members must be clearly indicated in the constitution and by−laws;
2.	Officers must submit activity and financial reports to the Student Services Center one week after the activity;
3.	Officers are required to submit an annual evaluation and terminal reports of activities as well as a compilation of the liquidation of financial expenses to the Student Services Center before the final examinations;
4.	Officers are required to submit operational or action plans (with proposed budget), calendar of activities, proposed projects and research, lists of new officers and members for the following year on the first month of the opening of the first semester; and
5.	Officers and members are required to attend the approved activities of the Association of College Clubs and Organization (ACCO), College Student Government (CSG), and Student Services Center (SSC).
I.	MODERATORS
Advisorship or moderatorship is an important function of a school personnel in the leadership development of the students.

1.	The Moderator must be an employee of Cor Jesu College;
2.	He/She is nominated by the club officers and approved by the Director for Student Services;
3.	The Moderator gives technical assistance and guidance to the club;
4.	He/She endorses the activities and projects of the club to the Director for Student Services;
 
5.	He/She must read and scrutinize the activities, projects and budget of the officers and members of the clubs before endorsing them to the Director for Student Services;
6.	He/She has the power to disapprove the activities and requests of the officers and members;
7.	All−important communications of the organization require the perusal and signature of the Moderator;
8.	Motivating the officers and members to attain the goals and objectives of the club is a vital role of the moderator; and
9.	The Moderator attends every major activity of the club especially overnight and off−campus activity.

J.	RECORDS OF ORGANIZATIONS
1.	The organizations and clubs must keep their own records of the Constitution and By−Laws, minutes of meetings, activity, annual, terminal and financial reports;
2.	They are allowed to collect reasonable registration fee to be used as funds for their approved activities. However, they have to inform the Director for Student Services in writing about such plan to collect registration fees;
3.	They may organize creative activities to raise funds for the organizations and clubs except solicitation;
4.	The organization and club's expenses must be well−recorded and supported with official or temporary receipts;
5.	The organizations/clubs are allowed to hold a petty cash fund as specified by the Student Services Center. The excess amount must be deposited in the bank of their choice or in the Finance Office for safekeeping. In case they choose to deposit their money in the banks, they must follow the following guidelines:

5.1.	The bankbook must be deposited in the Student Services Center. The officers can borrow the bankbook only when they need to withdraw or deposit money with the approval of the moderator.
5.2.	The signatories should not be less than the following: moderator, president and the treasurer.
6.	If the club or organization chooses to deposit their money at the Finance Office, the receipt of money deposited in the Finance Office must be submitted to the Student Services Center.
 
K.	ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS

1.	Activities of organizations must be endorsed by the moderator and approved by the Director for Student Services;
2.	Clubs or organizations are allowed to hold major on−campus activities provided that they comply with the following requirements:
2.1.	The officers of the club must submit activity proposal, program design, minutes of the meeting, list of participants, budget proposal (if any), resolution, photocopy of the approved venue/facility booking form to the Student Services Center;
2.2.	The club officers are required to fill out booking forms for the use of school facilities and have them signed by persons in authority;
2.3.	The club officers must submit Operational Guidelines for Health and Safety Protocol duly signed by Safety and Security Officer and School Nurse;
2.4.	The activity will only be up to 5:00 in the afternoon. Activities beyond the intended time are subject for approval of the Director for Student Services. Moreover, officers must seek approval from the Vice President for Finance and Administration for extension of the use of the venue/facility. In case of overnight stay, the officers of the club are required to get an approval from the President of the School; and
2.5.	The organizations and clubs are required to return borrowed equipment and furniture, and are responsible for the restoration of venue or area after the activity. Failure to do these is a ground for investigation and possible cancellation of the club or organization’s right to conduct an activity. Officers of the club or organization might also face disciplinary measures.
3.	Student organizations and clubs are allowed to conduct off−campus activities provided that the following requirements are complied with:

3.1.	The officers of the club should submit to the Student Services Center an activity proposal and program design attached with the flow of activities endorsed by the moderator or adviser;
3.2.	The officers should secure a notarized affidavit of consent forms for all participants to be endorsed by the Advisers or Moderators, noted by the Dean of College and approved by the Director for Student Services. The parent or guardian must sign it and the return slip should be submitted to the moderator or adviser. The
 
moderator or adviser shall give a photocopy of the signed parent consent to the Student Services Center before they are allowed to leave the campus for their off−campus activities;
3.3.	The club officers must submit Operational Guidelines for Health and Safety Protocol duly signed by Safety and Security Officer and School Nurse;
3.4.	The moderator or his/her authorized representative should accompany the group during the whole activity. The club or organization/class is required to have 1 teacher/moderator per 30 students/participants. Personnel−in−charge must have appropriate first−aid and medical emergency training;
3.5.	The officers should secure medical clearance of the participants;
3.6.	The officers should request a complete first−aid kit from the school clinic; and
3.7.	The officers should book a trip ticket from the General Services Office duly signed by the persons in authority. In case of a sub− contracting vehicle, photocopies of certification from LTFRB for the validity of the franchise of the proposed operator (i. e. legitimate and up−to−date), if applicable, special permit from LTFRB if transportation is out−of−line, updated/valid documents pertaining to registration, insurance coverage, driver’s license, and assurance of roadworthiness.

L.	SANCTIONS
1.	An organization and/or club that has violated any provision of the College Student Handbook and state laws will be investigated by those in authority. If found guilty, the organization or club will automatically be suspended for a maximum of three years;
2.	Any officer or member of the club who has violated school policies and state laws will be investigated. If found guilty, the following will be imposed:

1.1.	The officers or members will be removed from office or from the organization.
1.2.	The school may impose sanctions based on Section 7 of the College Student Handbook.
 
3.	Any damage to school property and equipment will be charged to offending individuals or parties, without prejudice of being investigated and given administrative sanctions based on Section 7 of the College Student Handbook;
4.	The damaged equipment must be replaced with the same equipment; or else, the organization/club or individual will be charged the total cost according to the current price of the damaged equipment or property;
5.	The school reserves the right to approve, suspend and dissolve clubs and organizations. The organization and/or club is suspended or dissolved when found guilty of any of the following:

5.1.	If the activity in the name of the club is an infraction of the rules of the College; and
5.2.	If the club violates its Constitution and By−laws or the laws of the country.
 
SECTION IX.
Co-Curricular and Extra-Curricular Activities
A.	CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Co−curricular activities are outside classroom activities organized and spearheaded by the subject teachers and are intended to complement classroom instruction for the enhancement of skills, assimilation of values, and broadening of understanding of concepts, theories and principles. These may include but not limited to the following:
1.	Seminar−workshops
2.	Spiritual Activities
3.	Symposia or Fora
4.	Socio−cultural and Athletic Competitions
5.	Academic Contests
6.	Field Trips
7.	Exposures or Community Immersions
B.	EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Extra−curricular activities are those that contribute to the total development of the students and are organized by the school, other institutions or recognized organizations and clubs and other groups that are approved by the administration. Presented in the table below are some of the examples of these activities.
Socio-Cultural Events	Sports Events	Campus Writing and Aesthetic
Competitions	Developmental & Environmental
Activities
Vocal Solo Duet Chorus Folk Dance
Ethic Dance Ethno Jazz
Interpretative Dance Cheer Dance
Dance Theater Popular dance Sayawitan Pista sa Nayon Band Concert Theatre
Visual Arts	Basketball Volleyball Softball Baseball Sepak−Takraw Taekwondo Badminton Table Tennis Chess
Games of the General Scrabble
Word Factory Dart
Lawn Tennis Swimming
Frisbee Athletic Events	Painting Contest Essay−writing Debate
Song Composition Drama
Presentations Techno−graphics Poetry interpretation Oratorical contests Impromptu
Radio Broadcasting News Casting Hosting Modeling	Seminars Conventions Clean−up Drives Parades
Tree Growing Bird Monitoring Nature Tripping
Camping & training Community−based Research Mountain Climbing Fun run
 
1.	INTRAMURAL ACTIVITIES
1.1.	Intramural activities will be conducted for only three days excluding Saturday and Sunday. School days before and after are considered class days;
1.2.	The College Student Government (CSG) and the College Department Officers should not consume all the collected Student Activity Fund (SAF) for the Intramural Activities only. The SAF is also intended for curricular and extra−curricular activities for students’ holistic enhancement;
1.3.	The Mini−Olympics which is usually held prior to the conduct of the intramural activities is held only whenever it is necessary for the Colleges to select their players and contestants for the intramural activities. The Colleges are only allowed to withdraw 10% of the collected College Standing Fund during the first semester to finance the expenses of the activity;
1.4.	The props, costumes, uniforms of the participants for competitions especially for intramural games should be governed by the following:
1.4.1.	The College where the players or contestants belong may, or should share 50% of the costumes and uniform of the participants.
1.4.2.	The t−shirt uniform for students during intramural activities and foundation days will only be on voluntary basis.
1.5.	Costumes and props for the intramural activities may be rented provided that the price involved is reasonable; and
1.6.	The use of harmful objects such as firecrackers, explosives, or burning objects that can cause fire is strictly prohibited.

2.	OTHER ACTIVITIES
Any group of students can organize other school activities not in the list provided that the activities are not contrary to school rules and are duly approved by the Director for Student Services.

C.	TRAINERS, REFEREES, AND JUDGES FOR COMPETITIONS
1.	The school discourages hiring of trainers outside of Cor Jesu College;
2.	The school encourages the selection of judges from Cor Jesu College. The honoraria for trainers and judges must be within the approved rate set by the school;
3.	If and when circumstances would call for the organizer to invite judges and trainers from outside the school, letter of request signifying the names and qualifications of judges and trainers must be submitted to
 
the Student Services Center for approval. Moreover, Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) which includes the agreed amount of trainers’ fee the scope of the job and the duration of the training must also be submitted for approval to the Director for Student Services; and
4.	The referees for the basketball and volleyball games shall be the varsity players, except for championship games where outside referees may be hired.

D.	PRACTICES OF PRESENTATIONS

1.	The practice or rehearsal of presentations shall be done only on the school campus, except for tune−up games that may be held outside the campus;
2.	The practices shall not go beyond 5:00 o'clock in the evening and shall not be earlier than 4:00 0'clock in the morning;
3.	The students must book the place and the equipment to be used ahead of time;
4.	If and when circumstances would call for the organizer to hold practices outside the school, the organizer must submit the following to the Director for Student Services for approval;
4.1.	Letter indicating the date, time and venue of practices;
4.2.	Letter of approval from the authorized persons of the selected venue;
4.3.	Agreed amount of payment or rent of the place and venue;
4.4.	Safety Guidelines and Health Protocols;
4.5.	List of Participants;
4.6.	Parent’s Consent of the Participants

E.	REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITIES

1.	The following are required for off−campus activities, like immersion, field trip, recollection, retreat, exposure, camping, swimming, seminar, conventions and others:
1.1.	Letter from the Organizer
1.2.	Activity Proposal
1.3.	Program Design with Activity Flow
1.4.	Minutes of the Meeting
1.5.	Budget Proposal
1.6.	Resolution (if applicable)
1.7.	List of Participants
 
1.8.	Approved House Rules − Health and Safety Protocol duly signed by School Nurse and Safety and Security Officer
1.9.	Notarized Affidavit of Consent
1.10.	Parent’s Consent
1.11.	Medical Certificate
1.12.	Trip ticket from the General Services Office duly signed by the persons in authority. In case of a sub−contracting vehicle, photocopies of certification from LTFRB for the validity of the franchise of the proposed operator (i. e. legitimate and up−to− date), if applicable, special permit from LTFRB if transportation is out−of−line, updated/valid documents pertaining to registration, insurance coverage, driver’s license, and assurance of roadworthiness.
2.	There must be a presence of Lifeguards and/or Safety Officer during outdoor activities especially for swimming, camping, community immersion, mountain climbing and the like; and
3.	Organization officers, moderators and/or teachers accompanying the students must ensure that the requirements are complied. Moreover, they have to check the condition of the vehicles and other means of transportation that they will use in transporting students to the desired venues of the activities.

F.	REQUIREMENTS FOR ON-CAMPUS ACTIVITIES
1.	The following are required for on−campus activities:
1.1.	Activity Proposal
1.2.	Program Design with Activity Flow
1.3.	Minutes of the Meeting
1.4.	Budget Proposal
1.5.	Resolution
1.6.	Approved House Rules – Health and Safety Protocol duly signed by School Nurse and Safety and Security Officer
1.7.	List of Participants
1.8.	Booking of facilities/equipment needed
1.9.	Parent’s Consent, if on−campus activity is conducted beyond 5:00 pm
2.	The activity must always start with a prayer or Eucharistic celebration, followed by the singing of the Philippine National Anthem, Cor Jesu College Hymn, the recitation of the Vision, Mission and Core Value of the school; and
 
3.	The theme of the program must always be anchored on the annual institutional theme.

G.	PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL OF ACTIVITIES
1.	Fill out activity proposal form and submit to the Student Services Center with attachments of required documents at least five (5) working days before the activity;
2.	For off−campus and overnight activities, parent's consent of participants is required;
3.	For overnight activities in the campus, organizers must secure approval from the Office of the President;
4.	The procedures in the signing of the parent's consent are as follows:
4.1.	The Moderator or Adviser, Dean of the Department, Dean of College, Director of Students Services, Parent or Guardian and student must sign the Parent’s Consent Form; and
4.2.	The Moderator or Adviser distributes the Parent's Consent Forms and thereafter collects them from the participants. Student will not be allowed to join the activity without parent’s consent.
5.	The organizers must secure copy of the approved activity proposal at the Student Services Center before conducting the activity.
H.	ATTENDANCE OF STUDENTS IN VARIOUS ACTIVITIES
1.	The students are required to participate in on and off−campus activities as may be required by those in authority;
2.	The students who are absent during the required activity shall be considered absent in all the enrolled subjects of that day;
3.	The school does not allow the imposition of fines as a punishment due to absences during the required activity; and
4.	The moderators should be present during meetings and other activities to provide guidance to the students and to monitor the implementation of activities or events.

I.	BEHAVIOR OF STUDENTS DURING ON AND OFF-CAMPUS ACTIVITIES
1.	Students are not allowed to utter vulgar words and green jokes during presentations. Words that desecrate and blaspheme the Lord, and expressions that malign the Church, the Institution, or any person in the community are taboo;
2.	Any misconduct or misbehavior of participants and students during the show or presentation, like howling, shouting, unnecessary noise and other behavior will be dealt with accordingly; and
 
3.	Students who are under the influence of liquor and prohibited drugs will not be allowed to participate in the activity without prejudice of being investigated and given appropriate sanction according to existing rules of the school.
J.	BUDGET AND LIQUIDATION OF FUNDS
1.	The organizing group should prepare a budget and secure an approval from the Director for Student Services;
2.	The liquidation of funds must be done one week after the holding of the activity and it must be supported with official or temporary receipts;
3.	A person given an honorarium should sign a voucher where the amount received is indicated. This is countersigned by the disbursing officer;
4.	The organizer must limit expenses according to the budget approved by the Director for Student Services. In case of a deficit, the organizer should get the approval of the Director for Student Services for additional funds;
5.	The auditor, treasurer, chairperson, president and the moderator or adviser should sign the financial report;
6.	Any remaining funds should be re−deposited to the Finance Office or the bank; and
7.	Celebrations outside or inside the school after any institutional activity using the funds of the club, organization, college must have approval from the Director for Student Services.
K.	RESTORATION AFTER ACTIVITIES
1.	Organizers should return borrowed materials and equipment to their respective places or offices right after the activity;
2.	They should take care of the borrowed property or equipment. Any damage or loss incurred due to negligence will be subjected to replacement or payment of the actual value of the equipment based on the Finance Office assessment;
3.	They should remove decorations, props, and other materials used during the activity; and
4.	They should also clean the venue after the conduct of the activity.
 
L.	DISAPPROVAL OF ACTIVITIES
The school reserves the right to disapprove activities or events organized by the College Student Government or Student clubs and organizations if they contain one of the following:
1.	The activities are contrary to the core value and beliefs upheld by the College;
2.	The activity is very expensive and detrimental to the well−being of the students and the school as a whole;
3.	The activities are against the constitution of the club, the policies and rules of the school and the laws of the country; and
4.	If the organizations are caught violating the provisions of this handbook and found guilty of deliberately doing such or of negligence of duty such as cleaning the venue after the events and the like.
 
SECTION X.
Non-Academic Awards
The following are the non−academic awards to be given to graduating students who have excelled in various areas of student life. The awards are classified as:
A.	INSTITUTIONAL AWARDS

1.	FR. ANDRE COINDRE LEADERSHIP AWARD
1.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
1.1.1.	A member of the graduating class
1.1.2.	Continued residence for the last three years
1.1.3.	Has no failing mark in the final grades in academic and non− academic subjects for the last three years
1.1.4.	Has no dropped subject for the last two years
1.1.5.	Has not been found guilty of any violations of the rules of the institution on and off campus for the current School Year
1.1.6.	Has been an elected officer of any recognized school organization for the last three years
1.1.7.	Has completed the program within the prescribed number of years

1.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
1.2.1.	Leadership skills and qualities (40%)
1.2.2.	Academic Performance (20%)
1.2.3.	Non−academic Performance on−campus (20%)
1.2.4.	Non−academic Performance off−campus (20%)

2.	BR. POLYCARP COMMUNITY SERVICE AWARD
2.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
2.1.1.	A member of the graduating class
 
2.1.2.	Continued residence for the last three years
2.1.3.	Has not been found guilty of any campus violation of the rules during the current school year
2.1.4.	Has no dropped subjects and/or failing marks in the final grades in academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years
2.1.5.	Has completed the program within the prescribed number of years
2.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
2.2.1.	Community Services Involvement (30%)
2.2.2.	Community Projects or Services Involved, organized and implemented (30%)
2.2.3.	Attitude and Values (20%)
2.2.4.	Position held outside school (10%)
2.2.5.	Academic Performance (10%)

3.	BR. ELRIC CAMPUS MINISTRY AWARD
3.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
3.1.1.	A member of the Roman Catholic Church
3.1.2.	A member of the graduating class
3.1.3.	Continued residence for the last three years
3.1.4.	Has no failing mark in the academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years
3.1.5.	Has no dropped subject for the last two years
3.1.6.	Has not been found guilty of any violation of rules on− and−off campus during the current school year
3.1.7.	Has no grade lower than 2.0 in R.S. subjects

3.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
3.2.1.	Personal Religiosity and Spirituality (40%)
3.2.2.	Community life (30%)
3.2.3.	Academic Performance (15%)
3.2.4.	Non−academic Performance (15%)
 
4.	BR. FRANCIS LOYALTY AWARD
4.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
4.1.1.	Has completed the course in Cor Jesu College
4.1.2.	Has no failing marks in the curricular year
4.1.3.	Has not been found guilty of any violation of rules on− and−off campus during the current school year

4.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
4.2.1.	Has studied at Cor Jesu College since first grade through high school until the completion of a collegiate course (20%)
4.2.2.	Has taken all subjects in the institution, inclusive of those taken elsewhere due to cross−enrollment and/or study permit of not more than 9 units (10%)
4.2.3.	Has completed his course up to a limit of an additional year to the normal length of studies (10%)
4.2.4.	An active member of at least one interest campus organization or club for the last three years (10%)
4.2.5.	Has been active in academic and non−academic activities (10 %)
4.2.6.	Has exhibited proper respect and pride in being a student of Cor Jesu College (20%)
4.2.7.	Has integrated the values of prayerfulness, service, commitment and compassion to others (20%)
B.	SPECIAL AWARDS

1.	OUTSTANDING INTEREST ORGANIZATION
1.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
1.1.1.	Is duly recognized by the school as a campus organization
1.1.2.	Has complied with the DSSC requirements
1.1.3.	Has existed for at least three years
1.1.4.	Has not been found guilty of violating school rules by causing to implement an activity contrary to school rules, laws and ordinances.
 
1.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of
the following criteria:
1.2.1.	Academic Leadership & Research (40%)
1.2.2.	Community Extension (30%)
1.2.3.	Spiritual Program (30%)

2.	HALL OF FAME AWARD
2.1.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
2.1.1.	Has been successfully chosen as an Outstanding Interest Organization for at least three consecutive years (70%)
2.1.2.	Has consistently planned and implemented activities geared towards holistic development of the students, especially the members for the last three years (30%)
3.	OUTSTANDING COLLEGE STUDENT
3.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
3.1.1.	A member of the graduating class
3.1.2.	Continued residence in Cor Jesu College for the last two years
3.1.3.	Has not been found guilty of any violation of the rules of the institution or of any existing law and ordinance of the country during the current school year
3.1.4.	Has no failing grades and dropped subjects in both academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years
3.1.5.	Has no dropped subjects for the last two years

3.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
3.2.1.	Leadership qualities (30%)
3.2.2.	Personal and Professional qualities (30%)
3.2.3.	Academic Performance for the last three years 40%)
 
4.	OUTSTANDING ORGANIZATION MEMBER
4.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
4.1.1.	Must be a member of the graduating class
4.1.2.	Must have a continued residence for the last three years
4.1.3.	Must have no failing marks in both academic and non− academic subjects
4.1.4.	Must have no dropped subjects for the last two years
4.1.5.	Must have not been found guilty of any violation of school rules on and off campus during the current school year

4.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
4.2.1.	Qualities and contributions of a member (30%)
4.2.2.	Academic performance (40%)
4.2.3.	Non−academic performance (30%)

5.	OUTSTANDING ATHLETE
5.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
5.1.1.	A member of the graduating class
5.1.2.	Continued residence for the last three years
5.1.3.	Has not been guilty of any violation of the rules of the institution on− and−off campus during the current year
5.1.4.	Has no failing mark in the academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years
5.1.5.	Has no dropped subjects for the last two years
5.1.6.	Has been an active player for the last three years

5.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
5.2.1.	Sportsmanship (30%)
5.2.2.	Achievement in Provincial Meets (5%)
5.2.3.	Achievement in Regional Meets (15%)
5.2.4.	Achievement in National Meets (30%)
5.2.5.	Academic Performance (20%)
 
6.	OUTSTANDING VISUAL ARTIST
6.1	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
6.1.1.	A member of the graduating class
6.1.2.	Continued residence for the last three years
6.1.3.	Has not been guilty of any violation of the rules of the institution on− and−off campus during the current year
6.1.4.	Has no failing marks in the academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years

6.2	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
6.2.1.	Visual arts skills (30%)
6.2.2.	Personal Qualities (10%)
6.2.3.	Achievements (10%)
6.2.4.	List of Projects/Masterpieces (30%)
6.2.5.	Academic Performance (20%)

7.	OUTSTANDING JOURNALIST
7.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
7.1.1	A member of the graduating class
7.1.2	Continued residence for the last three years
7.1.3	Has not been found guilty of violating the existing laws and ordinances of the school for the current year
7.1.4	Has no failing marks in academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years

7.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
7.2.1.	Editorial work (10%)
7.2.2.	Journalistic Style (5%)
7.2.3.	Integrity (15%)
7.2.4.	Quality of output (20%)
7.2.5.	Commitment (10%)
7.2.6.	Attendance (5%)
7.2.7.	Presswork (5%)
 
7.2.8.	Achievement in the local, regional and national levels (20%)
7.2.9.	Academic Performance (10%)
8.	OUTSTANDING STUDENT ASSISTANT
8.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
8.1.1	A member of the graduating class
8.1.2	Has been a grantee for the last three years
8.1.3	Has not been found guilty of any violation of the rules of the institution or the existing laws and ordinances of the country during the current school year
8.1.4	Has no failing marks in the academic and non−academic subjects for the last two years
8.1.5	Has no dropped subjects for the last two years

8.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
8.2.1.	Office management skills (35%)
8.2.2.	Personal qualities (25%)
8.2.3.	Academic performance (20%)
8.2.4.	Non−academic performance (20%)
9.	NIGHTINGALE AWARD
9.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
9.1.1.	Must be a member of the graduating class
9.1.2.	Must have completed at least 3 years of residency in CJC
9.1.3.	Has no grade below 2.0 including Related Learning Experience
9.1.4.	Has no record of any misconduct nor misdemeanor during his/her residency in CJC
 
9.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
9.2.1.	Must have garnered the highest general weighted average among the graduating class of his/her college (40%)
9.2.2.	Must have garnered highest point in the RLE subjects (40%)
9.2.3.	Personal –Social Qualities (20%)
10.	ANASTACIA GIRON-TUPAZ AWARD
10.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
10.1.1.	Must be a member of the graduating class
10.1.2.	Must have completed at least 3 years of residency in CJC
10.1.3.	Has no grade below 2.0 including Related Learning Experience
10.1.4.	Has shown exemplary leadership and management skills
10.1.5.	Has no record of any misconduct nor misdemeanor during his/her residency in CJC
10.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
10.2.1.	Must have garnered the highest general weighted
average among the graduating class of his/her college (40%)
10.2.2.	Must have garnered highest point in the RLE subjects (40%)
10.2.3.	Personal –Social Qualities (20%)
11.	RLE AWARDS FOR NURSING (Best in OR, Best in CHN, Best in DR,
Best in Psychiatric Nursing)
11.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
11.1.1.	Must be a member of the graduating class
 
11.1.2.	Must have completed at least 3 years of residency in CJC
11.1.3.	Has no grade below 2.5 including Related Learning Experience
11.1.4.	Has no record of any misconduct nor misdemeanor during his/her residency in CJC
11.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
11.2.1.	Must have a minimum of three years of continuous Residency (10%)
11.2.2.	Must have the highest general weighted average in all levels of RLE (40%)
11.2.3.	Has no grade lower than 2.5 in RLE in all levels (40%)
11.2.4.	Has no records of misdemeanor, and has never been subjected to any disciplinary action (10%)

12.	CLINICAL EFFICIENCY AWARD FOR BSRT AND BSMLS
12.1.	Guidelines
To be eligible for the award, a nominee must satisfy all of the following guidelines:
12.1.1.	Must be a member of the graduating class
12.1.2.	Must have completed at least 3 years of residency in CJC
12.1.3.	Has a computed general weighted average of 1.5 with no grade below 2.0
12.1.4.	Has no record of any misconduct nor misdemeanor during his/her residency in CJC

12.2.	Criteria
To be given the award, a nominee must get a total of at least 85% of the following criteria:
12.2.1.	Must have a minimum of three years of continuous Residency (10%)
12.2.2.	Must have the highest general weighted average in all levels of RLE (40%)
12.2.3.	Has no grade lower than 2.5 in RLE in all levels (40%)
12.2.4.	Has no records of misdemeanor, and has never been subjected to any disciplinary action (10%)
 
C.	PROCEDURES ON THE SELECTION OF AWARDEES

1.	Students/organizations may only apply for the category of award which he/she thinks is suited for himself/herself. Multiple application is discouraged not unless the applicant really suffices the guidelines and requirement, thus, deserving of many awards.
2.	Applicants should obtain endorsement from the moderator, duly noted by the college dean.
3.	Applicants should fill out the application form available at the Student Services Office. The application form contains the following parts:

3.1.	Guidelines. To be eligible for the award, applicants must satisfy all the guidelines. Applicants should indicate in the application form the corresponding label of appendices as compliance to the required guidelines. Certification as proof of compliance must be obtained from the following offices:
3.1.1.	The Registrar for items pertaining to school residency, subject dropping and grades
3.1.2.	The Prefect of Student Formation for items pertaining to records of violation of school rules
3.1.3.	The Student Activity Coordinator for items pertaining to records of student activities, leadership in the campus and association of clubs and organization.
3.2.	Criteria. Applicants should supply information accordingly and indicate corresponding number of appendices as evidences exhibiting the truthfulness of the claimed information.
3.3.	Signature of the Applicant. Applicant should see to it that the application is duly signed to confirm the veracity of the information.
3.4.	Rating. This portion is reserved for the awards committee.

4.	Applicants should see to it that award application pack is complete and submitted in due time. The award application pack contains the following:
4.1.	Application form duly filled out (as cover page)
4.2.	Endorsement letter from the moderator noted by the dean of the College
 
4.3.	Write up (essay) depicting the living out of the pillar of Excellence, Community and Apostleship
4.4.	Appendices with labels containing certifications, documents and other references as exhibits of proofs
5.	Applicants should submit the award application pack in hard copy and soft copy. Hard copy (soft bound) should be submitted to Student Activity Coordinator desk and the soft copy to cjsssc@g.cjc.edu.ph on or before the set deadline.
6.	The Non−Academic Awards Committee screens and evaluates the credentials of the nominees. The committee may decide to call on the nominee and his/her adviser / moderator for additional documents, interview and further verification. Hence, applicants and/or the moderators should make themselves available during the schedule of deliberation in case the committee asks for their presence for some inquiry and clarification.
7.	The committee endorses the lists of awardees to the Academic Council for approval by the President.
 
SECTION XI.
Academic Support Services
A.	OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR

The Office of the Registrar is responsible for administering and safekeeping of the scholastic records of all students enrolled in the College. It preserves and maintains the integrity and confidentiality of its students' records.
1.	OBJECTIVES
The Office of the Registrar commits:
1.1.	to	handle	and	treat	students'	records	with	utmost confidentiality;
1.2.	to ensure that all files are kept up−to−date;
1.3.	to submit all documents needed by partner agencies; and
1.4.	to update personnel about the new trends and thrusts of records−keeping.

2.	SERVICES
2.1.	Record Keeping
2.1.1.	Facilitates collections of source documents, admission credentials, enforced deadlines etc.;
2.1.2.	Ensures accurate recording of data;
2.1.3.	Keeps files up−to−date;
2.1.4.	Ensures fast retrieval of student records; and
2.1.5.	Ensures safety, security and confidentiality of students' records;
2.2.	Record Processing
2.2.1.	Processes/acts on requests for student records;
2.2.2.	Ensures release of student credentials on promised date;
2.2.3.	Prepares and submits reports and observes deadlines required by government agencies; and
2.2.4.	Reconstructs lost or missing records.
2.3.	Policies on Records
2.3.1.	All records of students must be handled and treated with strict confidentiality;
2.3.2.	Access to students' records is limited only to the student concerned for student of legal age, to parents or
 
guardians where the student is under their custody especially if the student is a minor, to officials of the school for decision making, and for compliance with court orders;
2.3.3.	All financial and non−financial accountabilities of students must be cleared before any record or credential is released;
2.3.4.	No record/s or credential/s will be released to the student if his/her records on file are not complete;
2.3.5.	Requested records or credentials are to be released only to the students concerned. For failure to present himself/herself, a Special Power of Attorney (SPA) is required especially if the student is of legal age. If a student is still a minor, a parent or legal guardian can process and get the student records;
2.3.6.	Completion of grades of students must be noted first by the respective deans of the college before they are recorded in the student's permanent records;
2.3.7.	Completion of grades (NT's and INC's) must be complied within 30 days after the last day of the final examination. Beyond this period, a student must re−enroll the said subject the following semester;
2.3.8.	Correction of grades must be done before the submission of Form XIX (Promotional Report) to the CHED. Once submitted, correction is no longer allowed;
2.3.9.	Duplicated or photocopied records are not accepted as admission credentials;
2.3.10.	Certified NSO copy of the birth certificate is a requirement upon enrolment and graduation;
2.3.11.	All records and credentials issued by the office is valid only when it bears the school seal and duly signed by the School Registrar; and
2.3.12.	All records submitted are for strict safekeeping.
B.	LEARNING AND INFORMATION RESOURCE CENTER (LIRC)

The LIRC is an organization, which facilitates the interaction between people and the information they need. It is one of the institution’s principal educational resources. It is in−charge of developing and progressively improving the collection and utilization of learning resource materials
 
necessary to support and supplement the instructional, research and public service programs of the college.

1.	OBJECTIVES:

1.1	To identify and provide access to the learning resources and information services required to support the learning, teaching and research activities of the institution;
1.2	To manage the resources efficiently and effectively;
1.3	To establish an environment conducive to study which caters to multiple learning styles and for both individual and group learning;
1.4	To teach faculty, staff and students how to use the LIRC and develop their information skills;
1.5	To liaise with the administration and students to establish their needs and to cooperate with management and other college
services to meet those needs;
1.6	To provide accommodation which is suitable in terms of comfort, space, furniture, ventilation, lighting and to ensure that these are maintained in a clean and tidy condition;
1.7	To provide a customer−caring attitude at all times;
1.8	To ensure that the stack is up−to−date, relevant and in good physical condition;
1.9	To encourage the LIRC staff to be actively involved in educational/professional change; and
1.10	To provide sufficient stacks to meet normal user requirements.

2.	RULES AND REGULATIONS:
2.1	LIBRARY HOURS:

2.1.1	Main LIRC:
8:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. − Monday to Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. − Saturday

2.1.2	Health Sciences LIRC:
8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. − Monday to Friday
 
2.1.3	Law/Grad School LIRC:
8:00 a.m. – 6:00p.m. − Monday to Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. − Saturday

2.2	GENERAL RULES:

2.1.1.	Faculty and students must log−in at the Library Entrance Monitoring System (LEMS) using their validated CJC identification card upon entering the library premises. They must also present their CJC identification card to the lending counters whenever any LIRC material is to be borrowed. Using other’s I.D. is strictly not allowed;
2.1.2.	Students must observe silence inside the library. Idle conversation, loud laughter and other unnecessary noise must be avoided;
2.1.3.	Students are expected to wear their school uniform during class days and any decent attire during free days. Wearing of slippers, shorts, mini−skirts, jogging pants, ripped and tattered jeans, sleeveless, crop tops and other informal outfit is not allowed;
2.1.4.	Students must deposit their bags, attaché cases, magazines, newspapers, pamphlets, leaflets, etc. must be deposited at the baggage counter. They are also advised to bring with them their money, cell phones, lap tops, jewellery, and other valuable items. The LIRC will not assume responsibility for any loss of valuable materials;
2.1.5.	LIRC users are not allowed to eat and drink inside the library, except at the Library Cafe. Tumblers and other bottled waters must be deposited at the baggage counter;
2.1.6.	LIRC users must observe cleanliness and orderliness inside the library disposing pieces of papers and other garbage, and by pushing back the library chair after using;
2.1.7.	LIRC users should set their cellular phones in silent
 
mode whenever they are inside the library premises;
2.1.8.	LIRC users who have cough and runny nose are required to wear face masks and sanitize their hands whenever they are inside the library premises;
2.1.9.	Students are advised to check out at least 15 minutes before the time for inspection to avoid congestion at the exit area.

2.3	Rules on Circulation
2.3.1	Stack and Browsing Books
a.	Students can borrow stack and browsing books for one week, renewable for another week, unless another patron puts in a request.
b.	Full−time faculty members may borrow a maximum of ten (10) books at a time for three (3) weeks, while part−time faculty may borrow a maximum of five (5) books at a time for three (3) weeks.
c.	Faculty from the Basic Education Faculty (BED), non− teaching personnel, undergraduate, law, and graduate students may borrow a maximum of two
(3) books at a time for one week.



2.3.2	Reserved Books:
a.	May be read within the reading area only. A one− hour limit reading on the reserved book is strictly imposed. LIRC users will have to return it to the counter, unless nobody puts in a request for the book.
b.	May be borrowed for overnight home study. For overnight use, books may be loaned out from 6:00p.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Mondays−Fridays) and must be returned before 8:00 a.m. of the following school day. During weekends, books may be loaned out from 4:00p.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Saturdays), and must be
 
returned not later than 8:00 a.m. of the following school day.

2.3.3	Filipiniana Books:
a.	Books in the Filipiniana section may be borrowed for overnight home study. For overnight use, books may be loaned out at 6:00p.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Mondays− Fridays) and must be returned before 8:00 a.m. of the following school day. During weekends, books may be loaned out at 4:00p.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Saturdays), and must be returned not later than 8:00 a.m. of the following school day.
2.3.4. Books for Outside Photocopy (ln case the photocopier unit is out of order):
a.	Students must fill out the photocopying slip in the circulation desk and deposit their CJC validated ID’s at the circulation counter.
b.	Students are given an allotted time of 45 minutes to photocopy books outside. Failure to return the books on time is subject to penalties.
c.	Students are advised not to photocopy the whole book, in observance with the copyright law.



2.4	Fines and Other Penalties
2.4.1	For overdue books, the following fines are levied:
a.	Books in the circulation or stack, Fil./Law and Fil. Grad.P 5.00 a day, including Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays.
b.	Reserved books – P5.00 an hour (Library hour) or any fraction thereof.
c.	Books not returned after the deadline set before the end of the semester/Christmas vacation/summer period – P10.00 a day including Saturdays, Sundays and Holidays.
 
d.	Books photocopied outside, P 5.00 for the first 5 minutes; P 2.00 for every succeeding 5 minutes or any fraction thereof.
2.4.2	Students caught stealing periodicals from the library shall pay twice the current value of the periodical stolen.
2.4.3	Lost or damage book – when a book is lost, it should be reported immediately to the librarian. However, this does not exempt the borrower from paying the fines should it become overdue. Moreover, lost or damage book must be replaced with the same book (same title and author) and pay a processing fee of P150.00.
2.4.4	Students caught violating general rule 1 shall be suspended for one week for the first offense and one month for the succeeding offenses.
2.4.5	Students caught violating the general rules no. 2, 3 & 5 shall be suspended from entering the library for 3 days for the first offense and one week for the succeeding offense.
2.4.6	Students caught violating the general rules no. 6 & 7 shall be penalized through community engagement inside the library premises.
2.4.7	Any LIRC user who shall tear, deface, mutilate or steal library property shall be reported to the SSC Office for investigation and disciplinary action by the Student Disciplinary Board.
2.4.8	Fines must be paid at the finance office.

3.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES:

3.1	Staff Development Program. This program is designed to develop efficient and effective LIRC personnel who are committed and responsive to clientele needs. In−Service Training Programs for both professional and non−professional staff are geared towards development of skills that are needed to work effectively in hybrid library environment. Training modules for apprenticeship of
 
student assistants (SAs), and in−service training are designed to foster effective learning and development of work−related skills.

3.2	Users Services Program. This program is intended to provide and deliver information services required to support the instructional and research activities of the faculty and students through Library and Online services. It is designed to adopt and demonstrate a user−centered service mentality that directs all staff activity toward delivery of resources and services to patron in multiple modalities at appropriate time and in the format desired. The library aspires to provide the following services:

3.2.1	Circulation Service. The LIRC provides lending service to students, faculty and administrators onsite and online.
3.2.2	OPAC Assistance. The LIRC staff offers one−on−one instruction in the use of the library and its bibliographic utilities like the web OPAC, bibliographies, indexes, electronic resources, and other services. Information sources can be searched through the Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC).
3.2.3	Reading Room Service. This type of service is provided for LIRC users who intend to read, study, or consult any of the resources available in the LIRC. Reading tables, sofa sets, learning commons, discussion rooms, and carrels are provided in each section.
3.2.4	Reserve Book Provision. This service includes the provision of instructional resources that are directly in line with the present curricular and instructional programs of the school. Reserved books include textbooks and other materials that are on high demand but are few in copies. These books are intended to serve a greater number of users. Students can use the books within LIRC hours; with the option to borrow the reserve books for home use through overnight use.
3.2.5	LIRC Education and Training (Library Interns). The LIRC serves as a laboratory for learning for 4th year library science students undergoing in−campus library practicum.
 
3.2.6	Reader’s Advisory Service. This service includes guidance to LIRC users in the choice of reading materials especially in their line of interests’ onsite and remote.
3.2.7	Research Assistance. Professional assistance is given in guiding researchers in the preparation of research paper/ term paper, and in identifying the resources needed.
3.2.8	Reference and Information Service. Direct/personal assistance are provided to users in the use of reference and information resources and facilities of the library. Also, the LIRC offers email reference, electronic document delivery and chat with a librarian service through the official Facebook page of the LIRC and its website.
3.2.9	Pathfinder Service. The reference section supports the research of the faculty and students by providing pathfinders for printed and non−printed information resources available at the LIRC and on the INTERNET.
3.2.10	Faculty Book Request/Tracking. The LIRC accepts request for materials needed for the different subject areas for curricular or instructional purposes. Basically, bibliographic verification of information sources requested by faculty is conducted. A status report of materials requested is available at the technical section (whether materials requested are available, out−of−stock, temporarily out−of−stock, out−of−print, temporarily out−of− print, or not available elsewhere).
3.2.11	Document Delivery. The LIRC staff attends to requests of faculty, and administrators to deliver LIRC materials immediately needed to their respective classrooms or offices. This also includes simple requests like photocopying materials subject to LIRC rules and regulations.
3.2.12	Bibliographic Service. This service is designed to promote information literacy and develop independent library users by introducing the organization of information sources and the search strategies employed to access relevant information in an efficient, effective, and timely manner. Bibliographic instruction will be provided to faculty, students or groups requesting these services,
 
especially for those currently engaged in research through onsite and online means. The LIRC staff compiles bibliographies on various subjects and formats.
3.2.13	Book Delivery Service/Electronic Document Delivery. A new customer friendly service for our clients who cannot go out of their homes can requests through door−to−door book delivery in the community. The students just request the book that they want to borrow thru library website and FB page, provide proof of enrolment and it will be delivered straight to their doorsteps or remotely.
3.2.14	User Education. The LIRC instruction is designed to introduce the facilities, organization, services and collection of the LIRC. The orientation is conducted at the beginning of the school year to all freshmen students taking Gen Ed 1, transferees, faculty and staff in blended modality. The instruction to all GE classes is coordinated with their teachers. A preliminary instruction in research methodology, bibliography making, and search strategy (e.g.: how to do literature search, how to locate LIRC materials) are provided upon request. Also, the librarians conduct co−teaching (team teaching) with the research teachers in the proper use of citations style, APA formatting and how to select quality literature.

3.2.15	Current Awareness Services (CAS) / Selective Dissemination of Information (SDI). This service includes selection of materials that a user might need and bringing to his attention that the materials are available. A user profile is compiled that will record the interests of the users and documents are matched with user’s interest. This activity is usually called selective dissemination of information or SDI. Acquisition bulletins the record the recent acquisitions of the LIRC are posted at the Info Board, shared to the GCs of the LIRC HEIs committee, posted on the FB page and LIRC website. The library maintains up−to− date information on a given topic by posting on the bulletin display corner and the e−board for the internet.
 
3.2.16	Photocopying Services. Reprographic facilities are available in the LIRC provided by CJC Cooperative and other photocopying operators. In case of brownouts, or machine failure, assistance is provided by the staff for photocopying outside the CJC campus
3.2.17	Interlibrary Use. Under this program, faculty and students of Cor Jesu College can use the resources of PLAI−DRLC Library participating schools free of charge during Saturdays, and subject to library’s rules or regulations during school days. College, graduate students and faculty can have access to academic libraries, and high school students to school libraries only. The LIRC reciprocates this service by allowing qualified researchers from PLAI−DRLC Resource Sharing participating libraries.
3.2.18	Database Searching Assistance / Electronic Access – The LIRC offers assistance to online searching / access to electronic databases covering e−journals, e−indexes and e− abstracts, on−line bibliographies, e−books and multimedia resources. On−line access to currently subscribed databases is also available. It provides instructional sample searches and other subject guides concerning CD−ROM, electronic databases and quality Open Educational Resources (OERs).

3.2.19	Connect with a Librarian – Connect with a librarian service entails personalized assistance to our library patrons for their research and academic requirements and aims to provide Cor Jesians customized library services to cater their information needs multiple learning modality.
3.3	Collection Development Program. This program aims to develop a collection of information sources in various formats to support the curricular and educational needs of the clientele. The six components of this program are: user needs assessment, collection management policy statements, selection, acquisition, deselection or weeding, and collection evaluation.
3.4	Technical Service Program. This program is geared towards a well− organized collection of information resources for easy retrieval of
 
information. The following services are: Classification, organization, computerization of LIRC records.
3.5	Physical Plant & Facilities Improvement Program – This program is designed to provide adequate and well−furnished modern LIRC facilities for optimum use. It envisions a well−designed service area that fosters an atmosphere that is inviting and accessible, safe and secure, and an environment conducive to learning.
3.6	Community Extension Program− This program is intended to provide outreach service to adapted barangay reading centers or public elementary schools in the community to help promote the love of reading to pupils and students. The library aspires to conduct the following activities: a) organize outreach program team; b) establish reading centers; and c) conduct reading room activities such as storytelling, book talk, reading aloud, quizzers and games.

1.  SERVICE HOURS
Main Library:
8:00 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. − Mondays to Fridays 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. − Saturdays
8:00 a.m. – 12:00 nn. − Sundays

Health Sciences Library:
8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. − Mondays to Fridays

C.	EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY CENTER
The Educational Technology Center is a learning, service, and production center for educational media technology encompassing innovative and contemporary educational systems and methods.

1.	Objectives

1.1.	To promote awareness, use and development of educational media technology among faculty members and students;
1.2.	To implement effectively an educational media technology program for students and teachers both in the private and public sectors;
 
1.3.	To initiate innovations in education media projects, modules, and activities through linkages and coordination with other educational institutions, agencies and groups; and
1.4.	To implement educational media program or project activities to help achieve financial viability;

2.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

2.1	Educational Resource Technology Development
2.1.1	Media Equipment Procurement Program. This program is intended to procure and upgrade media equipment to compliment the curriculum offerings of the school.
2.1.2	Media Software Procurement Program. This program is designed to procure emerging relevant instructional materials to compliment the curriculum offerings of the school.
2.1.3	Technical Service Program. This program is geared towards a well−organized collection of audio−visual media resources for easy retrieval of information. The following technical services are: Classification and Organization, and computerization of Audio−Visual Media Records.

2.2	Academic Networking Program. The program is designed to facilitate the sharing of resources available in one department with another.


2.3	Media Literacy/ Learning Program
2.3.1	Media Enhancement Staff Program. This program is intended to provide a regular in−service training of staff to make them more effective and efficient in rendering of service.
2.3.2	Media User Education. It is designed to make teachers and students knowledgeable about the use facilities, and instructional equipment, procedures for utilization
of resources, organization of materials and services of the center.
 
2.4	Audio-Visual Services Program. This program is intended to provide and deliver services required to support the curricular needs of the faculty and students.
2.4.1	Equipment Loan Services. It provides various tools for classroom instruction, lectures and conferences.
2.4.2	Advisory Service. It provides guidance to clients in their choice of non−print materials in their line of interest.
2.4.3	Non-print Request / Tracking and Document Search. This service provides assistance to request for materials available on and off campus needed in the different subject areas for curricular or instructional purposes.
2.4.4	Bibliographic Services. The Edtech Center provides bibliographic listing of non−print materials.
2.5	Software Production Services. This program is intended to produce relevant, cheap and indigenous materials for instruction; and assists clients in the preparation and production of
classroom instructional tools.
2.5.1	Recording Services. It attends to request for video and audio, and voice recording.
2.5.2	Documentation / Video Coverage. It caters video coverage for institutional, office, planned class activities and other special events.
2.5.3	Instructional Materials Services. It attends to request of the faculty for production of instructional materials for classroom use.
2.5.4	Photography Services. It provides AV support for specific lesson needs by way of graphics and photographic
materials.
2.6	Media Facilities. This program provides equipment and facilities to support the curricular and extracurricular activities of the faculty and students.
2.6.1	Media Satellite Program. This program provides satellite centers to include educational equipment for effective instruction.
2.6.2	Repair and Maintenance Program. It ensures that conditioned equipment and facilities are available.
2.6.3	Media External Networking. This program is intended to solicit assistance for acquisition on non−print materials.
 
3.	REGULATIONS

3.1	The Educational Technology Center (EdTech) is open on the following schedules:
Monday − Friday	 7:00 A.M. − 8:00 P.M. Saturday and Sunday	7:00 A.M. − 6:00 P.M. Summer (daily)	8:00 A.M. − 5:00 P.M.
1.	REGULATIONS
3.1.	The Educational Technology Center (EdTech) is open on the following schedule:

Monday − Friday	7:00 am − 7:00 pm Saturday and Sunday	8:00 am − 12:00 nn Summer
Monday – Friday	8:00 am − 5:00 pm
Saturday	8:00 am − 12:00 nn

3.2	Request for services beyond office hours can be accommodated provided the requesting group will pay for the services rendered by the assisting staff.
3.3	All students and employees should leave their valid CJC ID at the media lending counter whenever they borrow any educational technology materials or equipment. Using another identification card is strictly not allowed.
3.4	The users of AV Hall must observe the following:
3.4.1	Eating is not allowed inside the AV Hall.
3.4.2	Audio Visual Hall can be booked for two consecutive meetings a week unless nobody puts in a request.
3.4.3	Requesting parties are required to fill out the form for AV Hall. No form, no reservation is observed.
3.4.4	Bookings must be made three days before the activity. The requesting group is responsible for the setting up or arranging  or returning of the furniture and equipment to its original set−up after use.
3.4.5	Damages to educational technology facilities and equipment will be charged to the requesting group.
3.4.6	The requesting group is required to inform the Edtech staff three days before the scheduled activity if it is cancelled, moved or postponed. The activity that will be held in the area without the supervision of an instructor
 
will not be allowed. The film will be evaluated before it will be viewed.
3.4.7	Use of pyrotechnics and the like are not allowed in the AV Hall.
3.5	Users of Equipment must observe the following:
3.5.1	Due to the limited number of equipment, reservations should be made at least 3 days before the date of the equipment will be used.
3.5.2	Requesting parties are required to fill in the Edtech Form no. 4. All necessary information must be entered. No form, no reservation policy is observed.
3.5.3	The equipment should be picked−up and returned to the Edtech office by the borrower or authorized representative.
3.5.4	For practice activities, the requesting individual or group is allowed to use the equipment’s for one hour and may be renewed for another hour unless nobody puts in a request. Fines will be charged for not returning the equipment/materials on time: Php 10.00 for the first hour and Php 30.00 for the succeeding hours.
3.5.5	No equipment and materials should be brought outside the campus except those, which are related to community extension and spiritual animation that the College deems as integral part of its program.
3.5.6	Equipment shall not be transported to the classroom or other locations during rainy days to protect the unit from damages.
3.5.7	Delivered materials should be confirmed by the requesting group by signing the form.
3.5.8	Releasing of equipment in the evening during weekdays is until 7:00 p.m. Other days, it will be up to 5:00 p.m. only.
3.5.9	The equipment should not be left unattended. The borrower will be held liable for the loss or damage to the equipment arising from neglect, misuse or abuse.
3.6	Copyright Policy Implementing Guidelines:
3.6.1	No duplication of any copyrighted film, transparency, videotape or audiotape shall be made without permission from the copyright holder or other authorized person.
 
3.6.2	The College will assist faculty members and students in legally obtaining the desired materials or in securing permission to copy them.
3.6.3	The Center will record off−air and make available those programs for which permission to copy them has been legally or officially obtained. Under the existing copyright law, the recording normally includes:
a.	Programs dealing with news;
b.	Programs which are demonstrably otherwise not available for purchase or rental;
c.	Non−dramatic musical works and pictorial, graphic and sculptural works shown on public television;
d.	Programs or portions of programs the use of which qualifies for “Fair Use” classification under the copyright law;
e.	Absent extraordinary circumstances of which the College will follow the Guidelines for off−air recording of broadcast programming for educational purposes;
f.	The College will assist faculty and staff members in securing permission, when necessary, to record and use the desired materials;
g.	No audio or video of any live lecture, presentation, or performance of whatever kind will be made without the expressed permission from the producer and/or performer. This prohibition does not include the taping of events for the purpose of news gathering;
h.	No College audio−visual equipment may be used in contradiction of the above policies.

3.7	Fees and fines must be paid at the Finance Office.

4.	Policies and Guidelines for the use of the Norbert Auditorium
4.1	Auditorium Users and Activities. The auditorium may be used by administrators, faculty, staff, college, law and graduate students for the following activities:
4.1.1	Seminars, conventions, conferences and symposia;
4.1.2	Thesis defense/presentation;
 
4.1.3	Public Speaking;
4.1.4	Debates; and
4.1.5	Stage plays.

4.2	The users must observe the following:
4.2.1	The auditorium ca be reserved for two consecutive uses in a week unless nobody puts in a request;
4.2.2	Requesting parties are required to fill out the form for the use of the auditorium. No Form, No Reservation is observed;
4.2.3	Bookings must be made at least one week before the actual use of the facility;
4.2.4	Eating, drinking and smoking are strictly not allowed inside the hall;
4.2.5	Any activity conducted without the supervision of the instructor will not be permitted;
4.2.6	Use of pyrotechnics and the like, are not allowed in the auditorium; and
4.2.7	Any damages to the auditorium facilities and equipment during the event/activity will be charged to the requesting group.
2.	Copyright Policy. No duplication of any copyrighted film, transparency, videotape or audiotape shall be made without permission from the copyright holder or other authorized person;
3.	Fees and Fines. The users of Educational Technology Center facilities and equipment must refer to the office for the fees, and fines.

D.	CJC-BR.	POLYCARP INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

The Foundation is charged with the responsibility for planning, initiating, and coordinating all community−oriented projects and activities of the college and those of its units in the pursuance of the institutional mission and goals.
1.	OBJECTIVES
The Foundation effectively sustains its community development programs and services to:
 
1.1.	strengthen existing linkages and create new ones among various sectors;
1.2.	provide CJC students avenue for community engagements exposure;
1.3.	mobilize CJC personnel and alumni as collaborators in the delivery of community extension services; and
1.4.	design dual program directions: one for CJC community extension services and another for the management of funded projects.
2.	CORE PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

2.1.	Child and Youth Development Program− aimed to respond to the different faces of poverty through provision of integrated services as education, nutrition, health and sanitation for socially and economically disadvantaged families in both urban and rural areas.
This program provided opportunities for the CJC community to be responsibly involved in the socio−economic and cultural empowerment of the selected partners as a concrete way to demonstrate social concern. One of the major components of this program was the Children’s Assistance, Rehabilitation and Emancipation (CARE) which had culminated last May 2013. This program served urban poor communities in the city of Digos. Other components are the Br. Polycarp Scholarship Program or adopt−a Pupil Program, Medical Mission, PASKUNA Drive, and Emergency Assistance.
Existed for 29 years since 1984, the CARE project aimed to response to the different facets of child poverty as manifested by malnutrition, poor health and hygiene, social withdrawal and non−attendance in school. The project provided better opportunities for children, parents and families to access a better quality of life and sustained development through a capability building process. However, since it was officially graduated from the support of Child Fund Phil., this gave birth to Br. Polycarp Sponsorship Program.

Br. Polycarp Sponsorship
As an offshoot to the CARE project, this gives opportunities to the selected elementary and Highschool CARE beneficiaries to
 
continue their studies with educational support coming from the foundation. These children will receive school supplies, school bags, shoes, school uniforms and payment of their miscellaneous fees. They are also provided with capability building activities that could enhance their potentials and skills. Some of these capacity building activities are reading and numeracy, Story Telling, Personal Hygiene sessions, Handwashing and Proper tooth brushing and Value Formation. Parents are also given trainings and seminars like Responsible Parenthood, and Value Formation. A total of 140 children are enrolled in the program.

2.2.	Development Education Program− aims to address access to basic education particularly Early Childhood Education and Adult Education in remote communities, with particular bias to serving indigenous peoples (IPS).

Services provided	Target clientele/partners
Alternative Learning System	Out of School children and Youth in Davao del Sur/Davao Occidental
Alternative Learning System
The ALS−A&E program, in partnership with the Department of Education, facilitates the mainstreaming of Out−Of−School Youth and Children (OSY/OSC) and other school drop−outs in formal education by helping them to obtain certificates of completion in either elementary or secondary level. As a modified distance learning program where the identified learners undergo a modular course for 10 months covering different subject areas with corresponding learning competencies. Learners attend classes at least once a week for a whole day, mostly done on weekends or on other schedules as agreed by the learners and the Instructional Managers. However, in 2018 the school and the foundation focused on the review sessions for the learners since conduct of classes are taken care of by the Department of Education. At the end of the modular course, the learners take the national equivalency examination to get their equivalent competency certification.
2.3.	Micro, Small, Medium Enterprise Development Program− aims to provide technical assistance to the Micro, Small and Medium enterprises in Davao del Sur, and link them to potential partners
 
for financial and technical support to help strengthen and sustain their livelihoods, and capacitate them to become successful entrepreneurs.

Services provided	Target clientele/partners
Business	Registration Assistance through the Negosyo Center	Micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Davao del Sur
Business Advisory Services	Micro, small, medium enterprises
(MSMEs) in Davao del Sur
Business	Information	and Advocacy	Micro, small, medium enterprises (MSMEs) in Davao del Sur
Capability Building	Identified MSMEs in Davao del Sur
Marketing of Products	


2.4.	Capability Development Program− aims to enhance capabilities of community partners and other stakeholders to sharpen their knowledge, skills and talents towards self and community empowerment.








Services provided	Target clientele/partners
Capability	Building	for CSOs	Urban and Rural poor communities in Davao del Sur/Davao Occidental composed of farmers, Indigenous People,  fisherfolks,  disadvantaged
groups: women, children and Youth
Organizational
Management	and Leadership Training	LGU Magsaysay, Davao del Sur
Comprehensive
Development Planning and CLUP	Malita, Davao Occidental
Financial	Literacy	for
Former Rebels	Matanao, Davao del Sur
 
2.5.	Community Welfare and Development Program− aims to provide support in partnership with the barangays and public schools in addressing problems on education, health and nutrition, and providing technical training support for barangay officials and workers and community members.

There are several activities that were implemented under this program. To name a few: Feeding Program for school children for 120 days, Reading and Numeracy Sessions, Brigada Eskwela, Provisions of School Supplies and Materials, Tree Planting and Parenting, Mangrove Planting, Coastal Clean−up, Financial Literacy for groups and associations, Provision of hygiene kits, capability building for barangay officials and teachers, capability building for students and parents, scholarship, and relief operations to affected families due to calamities.

PASKUNA Drive
A yearly gift−giving activity of Cor Jesu College community as their way of giving back and sharing their resources to the less fortunate families and communities. Primarily, beneficiaries are identified through the barangay/group, however these beneficiaries are visited by the staff of the foundation for validation and profiling. This happens every December of the year in celebration of Christmas.


Relief Operations
This is primarily given to victims of man−made or naturally−made calamities in a form of goods like rice, canned goods, sugar, milk, coffee, noodles, used shoes/clothes, etc. The goods are basically coming from the students, staff, faculty, administrators and other stakeholders of the institution. The goods are packed and distributed through the Br. Polycarp Foundation.

2.6.	Advocacy and Networking Program−aims to actively build partnerships with other groups and networks, and to get involved in the information and education campaign on specific concerns, particularly for the protection and management of environment and the promotion of peace and culture.
 
E.	SACRED HEART FORMATION AND MISSION OFFICE

The Sacred Heart Formation and Mission Office (SHFMO), directly under the Office of the President, ensures the realization of the Institution's vision−mission particularly in its missionary and spiritual aspect. It specifically strives for the integration of faith and life among the stakeholders of the Institution. It also carries out the mission of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart and three−fold mission of the school (Teaching, Worship / Animation and Service) with vigor and dynamism inspired by the spirituality of Compassion.
1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.	To provide religious instruction in Cor Jesu College for greater appreciation and integration of the teachings of the Church;
1.2.	To provide other avenues for fuller expression of the faith through spiritual activities;
1.3.	To integrate the Catholic faith in the lives of the students, school personnel, alumni and parents through various spiritual services;
1.4.	To share the faith with other institutions outside of Cor Jesu College;
1.5.	To provide avenue for students who belong to other religions to express their faith inside the campus; and
1.6.	To provide catechetical resources to the students, school personnel and others.



2.	PROGRAMS
2.1.	Teaching. The teaching of Catholic religion leads the young to an enlightened and close union with Christ. It is a blend of religious studies and the dynamics of human development involving both instruction and formation as part of a life−long search for ultimate values and personal growth.
2.1.1.	Religious Instruction. A classroom−based Academic Program which promotes the fundamental initiation, learning and understanding of Christian Faith.
2.1.2.	College Religious Studies Subjects
 
RS 1	God’s Salvific Act
RS 2	Jesus and the Kingdom of God
RS 2	The  Church  and  Her  Celebrations:  Liturgy  and
Sacraments
RS 4	Christian Discipleship: Stewardship and Morality

2.1.3.	Catechetical and Resource Center. It is a resource center which provides instructional aids, books and other materials for religious instruction, liturgical services and animation activities.
2.2.	Worship. Prayer is essential to the making of our school genuinely Catholic. It is a celebration of life and love deepening and strengthening our relationship with the community and with God.
Individual and community prayer permeate our school in a natural way by becoming a regular part of the classrooms, of extra−curricular activities, of school celebrations, and especially of religion classes. Special programs of more intense prayer and sacramental life such as recollection and days of retreat will give our students and personnel the means to nurture their personal lives of faith.

2.2.1.	Institutional Masses. The SHFMO takes charge of the liturgy for fiesta, Holy Spirit, Thanksgiving Masses, and other institutional activities preceded by a mass.
2.2.2.	First Friday Devotion. The SHFMO leads the CJC community in praying the novena to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It also takes charge of First Friday Masses;

1st Friday Mass	BED Elem & JHS	CJC Gym	8:00 am
1st Friday Mass	BED – SHS 11 & 12	CJC Gym	10:00 am
1st Friday Mass	College	Student,
Faculty & Staff	CJC Gym	3:00 pm

2.2.3.	Weekly Masses/Prayers. The SHFMO takes charge of the masses and other prayers both in the school and in the cathedral.
2.2.4.	Novena. The SHFMO leads the community in praying the novena as part of a feast of a particular saint, e.g. Feast of the Sacred Heart, patron saints of the BED, and etc.
 
2.2.5.	Adoration / Visit to the Blessed Sacrament. Every Thursday before 1st Friday, the SHFMO facilitates the adoration of the Blessed Sacrament at the School Chapel.
2.2.6.	Visit to the Blessed Sacrament. To provide a space for silence, prayer and reflection, the SHFMO prepares the School Prayer Room and encourages everyone to visit Jesus who is present in the tabernacle.
2.2.7.	Holy Rosary. The SHFMO initiates the celebration of the Holy Rosary Month. Different activities are done such as the launching of the Month of the Rosary, daily rosary, procession and culmination activities.
2.2.8.	Baptism. The SHFMO assists pupils/ students who want to avail of the Sacrament of Baptism. The office advises them on necessary things to prepare.
2.2.9.	Confirmation. The SHFMO attends to students who want to receive the Sacrament of Confirmation. The office arranges the holding of the ceremony either in the school or at the cathedral.
2.2.10.	Sacrament of Reconciliation. The SHFMO provides opportunities for anyone who would like to go for confession. The office invites a priest every Thursday before 1st Friday. This is simultaneous with the adoration of the Blessed Sacrament.
2.2.11.	Liturgical Season Activities. The SHFMO organizes and facilitates liturgical season activities such as the blessing of the Advent wreath, imposition of ashes, etc.


2.3.	Animation Activities
2.3.1.	Retreat. As a culminating activity of the spiritual formation program, the SHFMO facilitates a retreat for graduating pupils/students.
2.3.2.	Recollection. In coordination with RS teachers, the SHFMO facilitates recollection every year for those students who are taking RS subjects.
2.3.3.	Fellowship Days. In coordination with RS classes, the SHFMO spearheads the celebration of Fellowship Days. This activity is celebrated yearly as an integral part of RS classes.
 
2.3.4.	Vocation Festival. To promote vocations in the Church, the SHFMO organizes the Vocation Festival. This activity draws people from different states of life to come to CJC and share their life to students. This is also an opportunity for religious congregations to promote and recruit possible aspirants.
2.3.5.	BEC/SFC. The office supports the different Basic Ecclesial Communities inside the campus. It provides orientation and guidelines for doing BEC prayer meetings.
2.3.6.	Religious Clubs. The SHFMO encourages the students to join religious clubs/organizations. It provides training and ongoing−formation programs for their members.
2.3.7.	Professional Development Program. The SHFMO provides opportunities for career and spiritual development of its RS teachers and office staff by giving them animation activities and sending them for training and seminars.
2.4.	Pastoral Services. Service is the living out of what we teach and the giving of life to what we believe in. It is an expression of our spirituality of compassion and sense of mission. As a Catholic school, we lead the community especially the young, to be in solidarity with the suffering poor, in communion with the Local Church.
2.4.1.	Extension Program. The SHFMO extends its services beyond CJC. It helps other schools in the aspect of animation and liturgical services.
2.4.2.	Social Action Desk. In response to the social action ministry of the Church, the SHFMO initiates activities such as symposia, forums and rituals to awaken the awareness of the community regarding social issues. The office also spearheads collecting donations for victims of calamities.
2.4.3.	Prison Apostolate. The SHFMO extends its services to the inmates of the Provincial Jail Rehabilitation Center and Digos City Jail. Activities like Holy Eucharist, socio− program, and distribution of goods and food are being facilitated by the SHFMO staff, religious club members and other volunteers.
2.4.4.	Prayer Services for the Dead. In a spirit of solidarity to the bereaved family of CJC employees, students, alumni,
 
parents and friends, the SHFMO organizes a visit and a prayer for the dead.
2.4.5.	Wedding Assistance. The SHFMO assists CJC employees, students, alumni and friends in the preparation of the celebration of the Sacrament of Matrimony.
2.4.6.	Vocation Promotion. Aside from the Vocation Festival, the SHFMO helps in the promotion of vocation in the Church by helping vocation directors/directresses in their campaign and recruitment at CJC. It also displays posters and brochures at the SHFMO Bulletin.
2.4.7.	SAVE the Young Program. The CMO coordinates and assists the Brothers of the Sacred Heart Youth Ministry in its Save the Young Program. It also acts as contact base for the volunteers of the program.
F.	STUDENT SERVICES CENTER

The Student Services Center is responsible for providing adequate non− academic support programs and services for students. It generally provides and facilitates extra−curricular and co−curricular activities for the welfare and total development of students. Specifically, the Student Services Center ensures the following objectives:

1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.	To provide avenues for information, orientation and forum for students in collaboration with other units or departments;
1.2.	To assist the developmental processes of the mental, emotional, physical and vocational well−being of students;
1.3.	To facilitate accreditation and re−accreditations of students’
associations or organizations;
1.4.	To cater and monitor on and off−campus student−initiated activities and/or institutional activities involving students;
1.5.	To initiate, organize and provide opportunities for trainings/seminar−workshops, sessions and formations for student leadership development;
1.6.	To ensure and monitor the implementation of the institutional norms and formative discipline of students;
1.7.	To organize, facilitate and hold activities, programs and performances relative to appreciation of culture and arts;
 
1.8.	To organize sports tournament on−campus and supervise participation to invitational games or athletic competitions in the provincial, regional and/or national level;
1.9.	To cater and provide services related to health and wellness for students and personnel; and
1.10.	To provide growth and developmental sessions and formations as support initiatives to student−scholars.


2.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

2.1.	STUDENT WELFARE PROGRAM. This refers to the basic programs and services that are necessary to serve the well−being of students. This includes Information and Orientation Services, Guidance and Counseling, Career and Placement and Student Handbook Development.
2.2.	STUDENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. This refers to the programs and services designed for the exploration, enhancement and development of the student’s full potential for personal development, leadership and social responsibility through various institutional and/or student−initiated activities. This includes Student Organizational Development, Student Affairs and Activities, Student Council and Government, Student Discipline.
2.3.	INSTITUTIONAL STUDENT PROGRAMS AND SERVICES. These are
programs and services offered by the school to facilitate the delivery of essential services to the students that include Admission, Scholarship and Financial Assistance, Canteen Services, Health Services, Culture and Arts Development, and Sports Development.
2.4.	AUXILIARY SERVICES. In order to provide support for the effort of other units/offices to enhance their effectiveness and efficiency as well as quality of services being rendered to the students as well as other stakeholders, the Student Services Center has the following Auxiliary Services:
2.11.1.	Conduct students and administrators' forum;
2.11.2.	Facilitate the resolution of students' complaints and grievances against the school and the personnel;
2.11.3.	Facilitate formation session for student assistants and other non−academic scholars;
2.11.4.	Provide I.D. Validation stickers;
 
2.11.5.	Facilitate issuance of Certificate of Good Moral Character;
2.11.6.	Facilitate issuance of Parents' Consent;
2.11.7.	Cater Lost and Found Items; and
2.11.8.	Approval	of	written	and	on−air	or	public announcements
3.	REGULATIONS

3.1.	ID and Validation Sticker
3.1.1.	When the school ID is lost, the student is advised to report to the Student Services Center. He/she presents the affidavit of loss, and pay request form for the issuance of new ID;
3.1.2.	The issuance of validation stickers every semester must always be approved by the Director for Student Services;
3.1.3.	Student’s ID must be surrendered to the Student Services Center upon withdrawal from the College or after graduation;
3.1.4.	Security guards are under instructions to check students’ ID at all times upon entering the school; and
3.1.5.	Only bonafide students with valid ID may make use of the library and other school facilities.
3.2.	Certificate of Good Moral Character
Alumni and students who want to get a Certificate of Good Moral Character are required to get a request form at the Student Services Center and to be paid at the Cashier.


3.3.	Parent's Consent
Parent's consent letter is released to the school personnel or student only after the Director for Student Services has approved the activity of the group or organization.
3.4.	Lost and Found Items
3.4.1.	The Student Services Center receives report of lost materials and equipment and helps locate the same. The owner is required to state the circumstances of the loss; and
 
3.4.2.	Found valuables turned over to the Student Services Center are released only to the rightful owners upon presenting an ID. Signed authorization will be required in the absence of the owner.
3.5.	Other Regulations
3.5.1.	Records and documents for public use can be borrowed by the concerned person with the approval of the Director for Student Services. The borrower is required to sign in the record book for reference;
3.5.2.	To obtain clearance, alumni and former students must settle their financial obligations, submit requirements and return borrowed materials and equipment; and
3.5.3.	A complaint form is provided to anybody who wishes to file a complaint and is encouraged to write all the pertinent facts. He/She signs and submits the complaint to the Prefect of Discipline as early as possible for action.
4.	OFFICE HOURS

Monday to Friday:	8:00 am − 12:00 nn
1:00 pm −  5:00 pm
Saturday:	8:00 am − 12:00 nn





5.	OFFICES AND UNITS UNDER THE UMBRELLA OF STUDENT SERVICES CENTER.

To be able to achieve the objectives of the Student Services Center as well as to successfully implement the programs and services, the Student Services Center, as a support unit has the following component offices and units:
5.1.	GUIDANCE AND COUNSELING CENTER (GCC)
The school Guidance and Counseling program is an integral part of the educational process. It refers to the range of learning
 
experiences which the school provides in response to the needs of the students and the available resources. This program is anchored on the American School Counseling Association (ASCA, 2012) National Model. This model is comprehensive in scope, preventive in design and developmental in nature.
Thus, program based on ASCA National Model brings school counselor together with one vision and one voice which creates unity and focus toward improving student achievement and supporting student development. Further, all guidance activities are rooted on “Compassion” the core value of the institution and designed to help students grow holistically, to think for themselves and others and develop their varied competencies needed to face the world.

In coordination and collaboration with the Student Services Center, The Guidance and Counseling Center plans for the optimum use of resources for the development of the students.

5.1.1.	GENERAL OBJECTIVE
To Promote the development of the whole person and encourages a lifestyle in students and the school community which integrates intellectual, emotional, physical, social, and vocational well−being.
5.1.2.	SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
As a community of disciples, we, the Guidance and Counseling Personnel commit to:


a.	Academic Development
i.	Assist students to identity their aptitudes, interest, abilities and talents to help them assess and develop their potentials to the fullest;
ii.	Help students to acquire attitudes, knowledge, and skills that contribute to effective learning in school and across lifespan; and
iii.	Assist students to understand the relationship of academics to the world of work, and to life at home and in the community.
 
b.	Career Development
i.	Assist students to acquire the skills to investigate the world of wok in relation to knowledge of self and make informed career decisions;
ii.	Help the students to employ strategies to achieve future career goals with success and satisfaction;
iii.	Assist the students to understand the relationship between personal qualities, education, and the world of work; and
iv.	Assist the students to choose career and develop realistic vocation outlook, life goals and proper attitudes towards work.
c.	Personal/Social Development
i.	Help the students acquire the knowledge, attitudes, and interpersonal skills to help them understand and respect self and others;
ii.	Help the students make decisions, set goals, and take necessary action to achieve goals;
iii.	Help the students understand safety and survival skills;
iv.	Help the students develop the ability to make decisions wisely and to solve their problems independently; and
v.	Help parents understand the developmental needs of their children and work them in meeting the needs of their children in the school situation.

5.1.3.	PROGRAMS

a.	Counseling. This program assists the individual in understanding himself/herself better. It is one−on− one relationship with the counselor in which the counselee is helped to arrive at a certain decision. It may also be group counseling session where the members of the group, through the facilitation of the counselor, mutually help each other.
 
b.	Information Services. The purpose of this program is to deepen awareness of students, teachers and parents on the educational, vocational/occupation, personal and social concerns in relation to school life.

c.	Testing. The student's individual strengths and weaknesses in the areas of personality, aptitudes, interests, needs and job skills are assessed through the use of standardized tests. Test results are interpreted to the students for self−awareness, growth and development. Test interpretations are also made available in groups.
d.	Career Development. It assists students in their choice of career. This also equips them with appropriate knowledge, attitudes and these skills necessary in making progress both in their studies and occupation; facilitates them to discover their personal characteristics that make career−related difference; introduces them to many vocational opportunities; and assist them in entering, adjusting and progressing in their jobs.

e.	Job Placement and Follow-up. A seminar intended to assist graduating students that assists in their application letter writing, to practice interviewing, tips on how to sell oneself and help them enhance their CV’s in coping with employment crisis and for better career prospects. This service also supports students so they can prepare for job search process and connects employers and graduating students.

f.	Consultation. It is a service where counselors and school administrators/faculty/students/parents help each together to reach a desired goal most especially towards a holistic development of student.

g.	Follow-up. It is a service where counselors call students with behavioral problems, absences,
 
incomplete school works, failed subjects, and other problems pertaining studies for academic consultation. It also includes academic monitoring, and counselor−parent/guardian and counselor− teacher consultation to facilitate concerns affecting school performance and self−management.

h.	Referral. It is usually understood as the action taken by persons within the institution who see that a particular person needs counselor assistance (Villar, 2009). Thus, teachers, administrators, counselors, parents, and other students may refer student for counseling.

i.	Individual Inventory. It is a systematic way of the Guidance and Counseling Center to collect data about the students to identify the personalities and capacities of every client for future references.

j.	Research and Development. To obtain valid and reliable data needed for area of improvement and development, the Guidance Counselors conducts evaluation of its programs and services.







5.1.4.	Other Services
a.	Peer Counselors Program. Training workshop for student−peer−facilitators are conducted; aimed in developing their counseling and facilitating skills to establish effective self−awareness and peer relationship.
b.	Staff Development Program. It enriches the counselors' counseling skills and techniques and deepens their commitment and dedication to service.
 
c.	Parenting Program. It helps parents understand and accept their role as fist teacher of their children, improve their parenting skills and establish strong partnership with the school.
5.1.5.	Office Hours

Monday to Friday:	8:00 am − 12:00 nn
1:00 pm − 5:00 pm
Saturday:	8:00 am − 12:00 nn

5.2.	STUDENT AFFAIRS AND ACTVITIES

The Student Affairs and Activities as a component unit of the Student Services Center is responsible for the implementation of the Student Development programs, which are designed for the enhancement and deepening of social responsibility and leadership skills of the students. These programs include; Student Organizations and Activities, Leadership Training and Student Government. This unit also implements support programs and activities for the non−academic scholars particularly the student assistants, dance and music artists and athletes.
5.2.1.	OBJECTIVES
a.	To manage processes of recognition and accreditation, supervision and monitoring of student organizations including evaluation of student activities;
b.	To provide opportunities and training to develop and enhance leadership effectiveness in the personal level and student organizations;
c.	To ensure amplification of the students’ right to
govern themselves as student body; and
d.	To provide support services for the well−being of non− academic scholars.
5.2.2.	PROGRAMS
a.	Student Organizations and Activities. This program promotes dynamic student organizations that initiate  and  implement  student  development
 
activities. It includes the accreditation of student organizations, monitoring and evaluation of their approved activities.
b.	Leadership Training. This program offers opportunities to develop and enhance student’s leadership capabilities and effectiveness in the personal and organizational level. In CJC context, leadership is a developmental and an empowering process which focuses on the formation of “tatak Cor Jesian” such as; Christ−centered, community oriented, compassionate, disciplined, trusting & trustworthy, integrated, believes in human potentials, competent, available and service oriented.
c.	Student Government. This program refers to the recognition and supervision of the body government that conducts activities for the development of the whole studentry.
d.	Non-Academic Scholars Support Services. This program refers to the provision of developmental, psycho−social and capacity building activities to support the development of the non−academic scholars.

5.3.	STUDENT DISCIPLINE AND FORMATION
Student Discipline and Formation as a component unit of the Student Services Center is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of school policies on discipline, decorum, social norms and implementation formative intervention procedures.

5.3.1.	OBJECTIVES
a.	To maintain discipline inside the campus by ensuring the implementation of school policies;
b.	To orient students and school personnel on matters related to school discipline; and
c.	To inculcate the core value of the school.

5.3.2.	PROGRAMS
a.	Orientation on Student Discipline. This program refers to the provision of information and orientation of students on school policies related to discipline.
 
b.	Intervention on Student Absences. This program refers to the intervention process for referred students due to absences.
c.	Policy Monitoring. This program refers to the regular monitoring and implementation of institutional rules and norms stipulated in the Student Handbook.
d.	Formative Intervention. This program refers to the implementation of formative processes in disciplining students who have violated the school’s rules and policies.

5.3.3.	REGULATIONS
a.	Absences and Tardiness
i.	Students whose absences are due to illness are required to get a medical certificate or present an excuse letter signed by the parent to be confirmed by the School Clinic in charge before getting an excuse slip;
ii.	The students who reach the maximum number of absences as prescribed in this Handbook are required to see the Guidance Counselor for an interview before they can get a last−chance slip from the Prefect of Student Formation; and
iii.	There will be no issuance of last−chance slip one week before the final examinations.

b.	School Uniform
i.	The office gives uniform dispensation for a day or a semester to a student with considerable reasons to be approved by the DSS. The student must submit a letter of request to the Prefect of Student Formation; and
ii.	Students who are not in uniform should get a dispensation slip from the Prefect of Student Formation before they are allowed to enter the classroom.
5.4.	SCHOOL CLINIC
The school clinic is directly under the supervision of the Director of Students Services in providing adequate, sufficient, responsive
 
and proactive health and wellness development programs and services to the school community.

5.4.1.	OBJECTIVES
a.	To provide quality school−based health services incorporating Health Promotion and Primary Health Care;
b.	To promote, facilitate, and maintain physical, emotional and social heath to the school community;
c.	To give first aid and emergency treatment to pupils, students and school personnel;
d.	To equip the school community with knowledge on relevant health issues;
e.	To provide adequate medical and dental supplies;
f.	To keep the medical and dental record of students and school personnel; and
g.	To ensure the school's hygienic and sanitary condition.





5.4.2.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
a.	Medical and Dental Services. The School Clinic provides medical and dental check−ups for pupils and students throughout the school year. It makes recommendations for treatment to pupils and students that need medical and dental care. It issues campus leave form for students justifying their absence in their classes.
b.	Medicine for Temporary Relief. It provides medicines for temporary relief of illness to students and school personnel who need immediate attention while they are on campus or off campus school activities.
c.	Health Education Program and Services
i.	Water sampling
ii.	Fogging
iii.	Proactive Health education
iv.	Blood typing and letting
 
d.	Issuance of Medical Certificate. It issues medical certificates to pupils and students for school related activities.
e.	Confinement Space. It provides a bed for students and school personnel who are sick and need rest.
f.	Vital Signs, Height and Weight Monitoring. It provides free monitoring of blood pressure, height and weight of pupils, students and school personnel.

5.4.3.	REGULATIONS
a.	Clinic Hours:

Basic Education Department:
Monday to Friday:	7:30am − 5:00pm
College Department:
Monday to Friday:	 8:00am − 9:00pm Saturday and Sunday:	8:00am − 5:00pm

Medical Check-Up
Monday:	9:00am− 10:00am
Wednesday:	9:00am− 10:00am
Thursday:	9:00am− 11:00am
Dental Check-up
Tuesday:	10:00am − 12:00nn
Friday:	10:00am − 12:00nn


b.	Medical and Dental Services
i.	All students must present a valid ID upon requesting medicines and other health services;
ii.	Only patients are allowed to stay in the confinement area;
iii.	All students are encouraged to report to the clinic for medical and dental check−up on the day they are scheduled;
iv.	College students who avail of the medical and dental services must get a service slip from the clinic to be signed by the school physician or authorized staff.
 
v.	Service slip will only be signed if student has availed of the medical and dental services; and
vi.	A letter of request and names of students shall be required for request of medical and dental examinations for school related activities.
c.	Free Medicines for Temporary Relief
i.	The clinic provides medicines for temporary relief only; and
ii.	The clinic provides medicine for students who are in school and are sick.

d.	Minor Injuries
i.	The clinic provides first aid for minor injuries; and
ii.	The clinic also facilitates and organizes the first aid trainings of students and personnel
e.	Emergency Cases
i.	In emergency cases the nurse refers the students and personnel to hospitals and other health care agencies for further evaluation and management of illness or injuries sustained in school or out of school activities. Parents and guardians will be notified as soon as possible; and
ii.	Each student and school personnel is insured for one year, that is from June to May, expenses incurred due to hospitalization can be paid by the insurance provided that the cause is within the policies entered into by school and the insurance company. It holds through for death caused by accident. For details, the student or parents are advised to refer to the Director of Finance or Director of Students Services.
5.5.	SPORTS DEVELOPMENT
Sports unit is responsible for the sports development program of the institution, which is designed to develop physical fitness and wellness of students as well as of employees.

5.5.1.	PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
 
a.	Varsity Recruitment Program. This program refers to the facilitation of recruitment, screening, try−outs and evaluation of athletes.
b.	Athletic Training Program. This program refers to facilitation of the training work−out, routines, exercises and practices to further enhance athletics skills and abilities of athletes.
c.	Sports Association Program. This program refers to the coordination with government and non− government agencies for the promotion of national, sectoral and cultural sports activities and developments
d.	Physical Fitness and Wellness Program. This program refers to the facilitation of sport activities for the development of physical fitness and wellness of students and personnel.

5.6.	MUSICAL ARTS
The Music Art unit is responsible for programs and activities designed to provide students with opportunities to develop and enhance talents, abilities and values for appreciation, promotion and conservation of national culture and multi−cultural heritage in terms of music.
Under the Student Services Center, provision for the development of talents and appreciation of cultural arts through music is facilitated by the Music Coordinator who is also the band master of the Red Ambassadors Band.

5.6.1.	PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
a.	Band Recruitment Program. This program refers to recruitment, screening, audition and evaluation of talents or artists.
b.	Music Workshops. This program refers to the Facilitation of workshops, skills development trainings and practices for further enhancement of musical talents and abilities.
c.	Musical Exposure Program. This program refers to musical performances for cultural arts appreciation whether on campus, during school activities and
 
celebrations or off−campus as invitational or marketing purposes.
d.	Culture and Arts Network Program. This refers to the coordination with the City or Provincial tourism on culture and arts for partnership and for representation of the CJC’s contribution to the development of tourism programs of the City or Province.
5.7.	CANTEEN SERVICES
Canteen Services of Cor Jesu College is managed by a designated canteen in−charge. The business aspect of the canteen in terms of rentals of concessionaires, permits, electric and water consumption and the like is under the finance office. The monitoring aspect of the canteen services in terms of sanitation of the place, foods and food servers is managed by the Student Services Center through the school clinic.
5.7.1.	OBJECTIVES
a.	To sell nutritious ready−to−eat food to the students and school personnel; and
b.	To maintain clean and orderly food service areas.

5.7.2.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
a.	Catering Services
b.	Fast Food Services
c.	Grocery

5.7.3.	REGULATIONS
a.	General Rules
i.	Cleanliness and orderliness must always be maintained inside the Canteen. Refuse must be thrown into the proper trashcans;
ii.	Electric fans and lights must be switched off when they are not being used;
iii.	All customers are required to minimize their noise while they are inside the canteen;
iv.	The canteen area is for eating purposes only; and
v.	Concessioners are required to strictly follow the policies and procedures for canteen services crafted by the Student Services Center.
 
b.	Fast Food Services
i.	Customers must queue while waiting to be served; and
ii.	The canteen personnel must immediately clean the table after the customers leave.

c.	School Personnel Food Service Area
i.	This area is for school personnel and for visitors only; and
ii.	The lavatory inside the school personnel service area is only used for drinking and for washing of hands.

G.	EXTERNAL AND ALUMNI AFFAIRS OFFICE
The office is responsible for the implementation of the programs and services for the Alumni and other outside stakeholders of the College.

1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.	To function as the liaison office between the alumni and the school;
1.2.	To assist in the organization of various alumni groups in order to extend the partnership of alumni with the school in the latter’s mission and vision; and
1.3.	To develop programs that are aligned with the school’s mission
and vision for alumni involvement.

2.	PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
2.1.	Social Concerns. The office develops programs related to the social mission of the school to help those who are in need of hope by coordinating with other units to provide aid during calamities, facilitate scholarships and other financial assistance. It also develops programs to enhance the alumni’s stewardship role in society by such actions as participating in environmental protection activities, cultural development, and good citizenship.
2.2.	Spiritual Enhancement. The office, in coordination with other school units, facilitates spiritual activities for the alumni in order to establish closer relationship with God, guided by the charism of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart.
2.3.	Social Development. The office, in collaboration with the various alumni groups, establishes the spirit of belongingness and
 
camaraderie among alumni and strengthens their bonding with one another through homecomings, sports and other activities.
2.4.	Organizational Assistance. The office provides assistance to the alumni as an organized body such as the registration and operation of the Cor Jesu College Alumni Association, Inc. to ensure the continuation of its juridical personality. The office maintains the physical headquarters of the association and assists in its day−to−day functions and facilitates policy− formulation and execution as warranted.

SECTION XII.
Institutional Services
A.	THE FINANCE OFFICE

The Office of Finance is responsible for the custody and administration of the funds of the College.

1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.	To plan, implement and pursue a program of effective and efficient managing of the financial affairs of the College; and
1.2.	To develop a system of control and evaluation of all activities relating to financial operations.

2.	REGULATIONS
2.1.	All financial transaction must be course through the Office of Finance.
2.2.	The tuition fees and other fees are published and posted on the Finance Bulletin Board before and during enrolment periods.
2.3.	Payment of Fees. At the start of every semester, every student is required to pay a down payment of not less than ₱2,500.00 or thirty percent (30%) of the total assessment for the semester. Each student is also required to follow the schedule of payments which is pre requisite for the issuance of examination permit. It is assumed that the remaining accounts of old students are fully settled before they are allowed to enrol again. Regular charges include the following:
2.3.1.	Tuition
2.3.2.	Miscellaneous Fees
 
2.3.3.	Laboratory fees
2.3.4.	Other CHED approved fees

2.4.	Payments of fees are made according to the following arrangement: Upon registration, one−fourth of the total assessment shall be paid, but in no case shall it be less than Two Thousand Pesos (₱2,000.00). The balance is to be equally divided into four monthly installments.
2.5.	Discount on Full Payments during Enrollment. Student who pays the total assessment in full upon registration will be given 5% discount on tuition fees. The discount is not applicable to foreign students.
2.6.	Family Discount. A discount is given to a family under education aid benefits based on tuition only. The three (3) discounts to be granted are as follows:

No. of children enrolled	Discount for the last student
admitted
3	20% for 3rd child
4	30% for 4th child
5 or more	40% each in excess of 5

2.7.	Scholarships
2.7.1.	The College, through the Financial Assistance Program, offers scholarships such as student grants, academic, band and athletic scholarships.
2.7.2.	Honor Students. CJC is granting scholarship to students who graduated with honors in senior high school. The specifications are as follows:

Honors	Scholarship Grants
Top 1	100% tuition
Top 2	50% tuition
Top 3 – top 7	25% tuition
Battle of Academic Wizard
Winners	Depending on results
Dean’s lister	Depending on Grades
Athletic Scholars	21 units plus miscellaneous
fees
 
Note: CJC will ask for a certification from the registrar where the student finished his/her senior high school indicated his/her specific rank.
2.8.	Charge for Withdrawal. A student who transfers or otherwise withdraws in writing within two weeks after the beginning of classes and who has already paid the pertinent tuition and other school fees in full or on any length longer than one month may be charged on the following terms:
2.8.1.	(10%) ten percent of the total amount due for the term if he/she withdraws within the first week of classes;
2.8.2.	(20%) twenty percent if within the second week of classes, regardless of whether or not he/she has actually attended the classes;
2.8.3.	(50%) fifty percent if within the 4th week of classes regardless of whether or not he/she has actually attended the classes;
2.8.4.	(70%) seventy percent if within the 6th week of classes regardless of whether or not he/she has actually attended the classes; and
2.8.5.	(100%) one−hundred percent or all the school fees be charged if he/she withdraws any time after the 100 days of classes.
2.9.	Change of Program Fee. A fee is required for each change of program made by the student after he/she is officially enrolled in the amount of two hundred pesos (200.00) only.
2.10.	Late Registration Fee. A returning student who enrolls after the deadline set for registration shall be required to pay P100.00
2.11.	Family Account. The unpaid accounts if any, of a brother(s) and/or sister(s) who enrolled in CJC shall be considered a family account due and payable within 30 days.
2.12.	Students with Educational Aid from any private or government agencies are required to present letters of authorization from the employing/sponsoring organization to accept payment of charges through the specific channel (on−line banking)
2.13.	Dishonored Checks. Check payments made by the students that are dishonored by the bank due to reasons such as NO SUFFICIENT FUNDS, ACCOUNT CLOSED or STOPPED PAYMENT
shall be charged back to the student together with a penalty
 
equivalent to 5% of the face value of the check or P200 whichever is higher.
2.14.	Special Subject Requested by students for classes not offered in a particular semester, are allowed to be opened with a minimum of twenty−two (22) students enrolled in the subject, otherwise the enrollees will equally pay the remaining slot, as determined by the Finance Officer−in−charge.
B.	GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

1.	PHYSICAL PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT

The office of the general and administrative services that serves as the physical plant and equipment manager of the school, is responsible with the management of the school's physical resources such as buildings, facilities and properties, including farm operations.
OBJECTIVES:
1.1.	To develop plans for meeting both the short−range and long− range physical plant requirements of primary programs and services;
1.2.	To recommend general repairs, renovations, and replacements of school buildings based on detailed work plans that take into considerations such as specification, schedule and cost;
1.3.	To conduct periodic review on security arrangement in campus;
1.4.	To help maintain and ensure cleanliness inside the campus;
1.5.	To conduct periodic inspection and evaluation of the health and food services in campus;
1.6.	To ensure and established proper management, that includes inventory of school buildings, facilities and properties;
1.7.	To provide for the training needs of the personnel under the office as well as their spiritual nourishment; and
1.8.	To perform other related duties that the school President may assign from time to time.
2.	CENTER FOR INSTRUCTIONAL AND MIMEOGRAPHING SERVICES (CIMS)

The Center for Instructional and Mimeographing Services (CIMS) provides the instructional material needs of the College.
 
It serves the requests of the different Departments, Colleges and offices related to instructional materials. It mimeographs or photocopies test questionnaires, office forms and others. It likewise offers its various services to outside individuals or entities.



2.1.	OBJECTIVES
2.1.1.	To provide instructional material needs of the College; and
2.1.2.	To offer various services to individuals and entities inside and outside the College.
2.2.	SERVICES
2.2.1.	Photocopy Services
2.2.2.	Mimeographing Services
2.2.3.	Printing and Binding Services
2.2.4.	School ID Production

C.	LABORATORIES

1.	COMPUTER LABORATORY
The Computer Laboratory is a facility of the school designated to implement laboratory−related services. These services cover specifically the provision of necessary and updated facilities inside the laboratory and assistance to users.

1.1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.1.	To provide adequate computer facilities to supplement the hands−on component of computer courses;
1.1.2.	To equip updated physical facilities for the use of computer laboratory users; and
1.1.3.	To provide assistance to computer laboratory users.
1.2.	SERVICES
Provision of functional computer for users specifically on the following:

1.2.1.	Assistance	to	hands−on	on	computer	operations. Student's laboratory requirements, which require that
 
they themselves would manipulate it, are not part of the service.
1.2.2.	Copying of computer files to the flash drive or any portable hard drive (vice versa)
1.2.3.	Scanning of pictures, figures and other printed materials.
1.2.4.	Processing of computer files.
1.2.5.	Assistance to Instructors during class instructions
1.2.6.	Assistance for installation of software
1.2.7.	Provision of basic troubleshooting of laptop for college and Instructors
1.2.8.	Other computer−related services that may arise in the future.

1.3.	COMPUTER LABORATORY USERS
1.3.1.	College and BED Students with computer subjects during the semester or school year;
1.3.2.	Computer Instructors;
1.3.3.	College and BED Students without computer subjects;
1.3.4.	Laboratory Staff;
1.3.5.	Rental Users:
a.	Cor Jesu College Alumni
b.	BED, College Faculty members and other employees

1.4.	REGULATIONS
1.4.1.	Laboratory Hours
Monday−Friday	7:00 A.M. – 9:00 P.M.
Saturday	7:30 A.M. – 6:00 P.M.

1.4.2.	The opening and closing time may change according to the schedule of classes. The laboratory is closed during holidays and institutional activities like assemblies, mass, foundation days and others;
1.4.3.	Computer users should present their ID upon entry to the laboratory. For transferees, if their ID is not yet available, they should present their assessment form or any proof that they are bona fide students;
1.4.4.	Computer users are given their usernames and passwords. It should not be used by other students;
1.4.5.	Each student has his/her own corresponding folder in the File Server for his/her files. Only files related to his/her subject shall be saved in this folder;
 
1.4.6.	Copying of pornographic files is strictly prohibited.;
1.4.7.	During vacant hours, priority access shall be given to those whose usage is more important and necessary;
1.4.8.	Students who are not using the computer are not allowed to stay inside the laboratory;
1.4.9.	Any loss of computer accessory during the class hour or vacant hour shall be charged to the student using that computer;
1.4.10.	There will be no sit−in or log−in during class hours except when necessary;
1.4.11.	There will be no games unless required by the instructor during their class time;
1.4.12.	Eating is prohibited inside the laboratory;
1.4.13.	In order to preserve the unit, no computer units shall be pulled out from the laboratory except when used for instructional purposes;
1.4.14.	No student shall be allowed to use the laboratory beyond laboratory hours;
1.4.15.	Use of the laboratory during non−class days shall be requested from the Computer Laboratory In−charge and to be noted by the Instructor and the Property Custodian;
1.4.16.	Overnight use of the Laboratory is not allowed; and 1.4.17.Laboratory Policies may be changed when necessary.
2.	INTERNET LABORATORY AND WIFI

The internet laboratory and wifi facilities are designed to provide internet access to students and faculty members to enhance the educational experience of students inside the campus. All students assessed with Internet Fees will be given individual accounts to access student wifi facilities.

2.1.	OBJECTIVES
2.1.1.	To provide access to suitable online facilities for research and communications
2.1.2.	To observe ethical standards in the use of the internet for personal growth and development

2.2.	SERVICES
2.2.1.	The internet laboratory is a designated space where students and faculty members can use provided computer
 
equipment as well as wifi access for those who bring their own devices for educational purposes. Students and faculty members are required to present their school IDs when   entering   the   internet   laboratory.
Technical help may be extended by the laboratory−in− charge on best−effort basis.

2.2.2.	Wifi Hotspots are set up around the campus to provide wireless internet access for educational purposes. These hotspots are located in student lounges as well as the Learning and Information Resource Center.

Technical help may be extended by ICT department personnel on best−effort basis.

2.2.3.	The social media IT Helpdesk page maintained by the ICT department may be engaged by students and faculty members in case of technical support needs. They may also personally visit the ICT Office for technical support needs related to this service.

2.3.	REGULATIONS
2.3.1.	School ID is required upon entry at the Internet Laboratory. Only students who are assessed with internet fees may be allowed entry in the facility. Individual wifi accounts will be provided in accordance with the internet fee assessment;
2.3.2.	Users are prohibited from tampering with computer settings. Only designated technical support personnel are authorized to change computer settings;
2.3.3.	A continuing diligent effort to filter out unauthorized internet content is being conducted. Users are prohibited from accessing pornographic and violent content, as well as other materials deemed incongruent with the school’s mission, vision and core value;
2.3.4.	Playing computer games are prohibited unless duly authorized by school authorities as may be related to events and celebrations;
 
2.3.5.	All activities detrimental to the continued health of the campus computer network are prohibited. This includes downloading of files and related actions that may introduce computer viruses and malware into the network, plugging in of unauthorized devices to the network that may interfere with network’s proper function, and similar activities;
2.3.6.	Beyond the usual coverage of the internet fees collected, special fees may be assessed by the laboratory−in−charge as deemed necessary; and
2.3.7.	Violations against these regulations will be subject to disciplinary measures as provided for in this manual.

3.	BIOLOGY AND CHEMISTRY LABORATORIES
3.1.	REGULATIONS
3.1.1.	Students are not allowed to stay at the laboratory unless it is their laboratory period;
3.1.2.	Students must help maintain the cleanliness of the room always;
3.1.3.	For Biology Laboratory, the television is to be used only for viewing of audio−visual materials related to the topics of the course. Only the teacher or student assistant is allowed to operate it;
3.1.4.	Students are strictly prohibited to enter the storage room.
3.1.5.	Anybody who wishes to use the apparatuses for scientific research must get permission from the laboratory In− Charge;
3.1.6.	Students should read and understand the general laboratory rules posted on the wall as part of the general orientation during the first day of classes;
3.1.7.	Apparatuses that will be used by students during laboratory time will be given only upon presenting the borrowers slip containing the lists of materials to be borrowed. No apparatuses should be brought outside except when the experiment is to be made outside but with the permission of the laboratory In−Charge;
3.1.8.	In cases where the apparatuses like test tubes, beakers, funnel and etc. need washing, all these apparatuses should be washed by the students before returning them to the student assistant or Laboratory In−charge;
 
3.1.9.	Students are not allowed to eat inside the laboratory room;
3.1.10.	Students should see to it that their working table is cleaned before leaving the room;
3.1.11.	For Biology laboratory, stools must be returned to their designated place after using; and
3.1.12.	Students should not write anything on the table or wall.
3.1.13.	Students enrolled in a laboratory subject during a semester shall secure clearance from the laboratory in− charge before final examination.
3.1.14.	Students are not allowed to dispose chemical used in the experiment in the laboratory sink. Chemical waste should be disposed in designated container.
3.1.15.	In case of incurring damage to apparatus or equipment, due to carelessness, student/s responsible should replace them before the end of the semester.
3.2.	PROCEDURES IN BORROWING APPARATUS
3.2.1.	Secure a borrower slip at the laboratory stockroom.
3.2.2.	Fill out the borrower slip of the different apparatus and equipment needed to be borrowed and give it to the laboratory in−charge or laboratory assistant;
3.2.3.	Loan−out apparatus and equipment should be carefully inspected before receiving the same;
3.2.4.	Extreme care to all equipment and apparatus should be practiced;
3.2.5.	At the end of the experiment or laboratory works, the students should clean and dry the apparatus and equipment and return them to the laboratory assistant; and
3.2.6.	Any accident that results to Injury or damage should be reported immediately to the teacher, student assistant or laboratory in−charge.
4.	SPEECH LABORATORY

4.1	REGULATIONS
4.1.1.	Students are not allowed to bring bags and pens inside the laboratory;
4.1.2.	Students must avoid playing with the wires of headphones;
 
4.1.3.	Students must have a permanent cubicle or set;
4.1.4.	Students are not allowed to eat and drink inside the laboratory;
4.1.5.	Students must minimize their noise;
4.1.6.	Students must return the headphones slowly after use; and
4.1.7.	Students must go out slowly after the class.
5.	HOME ECONOMICS

5.1.	REGULATIONS
5.1.1.	The Home Economics Laboratory is made available for pupils, students, teachers and administrators;
5.1.2.	The laboratory provides pupils/students with the equipment and facilities for cooking and other homemaking related activities;
5.1.3.	The laboratory also provides assistance food services during seminars and other institutional activities;
5.1.4.	Laboratory Hours:
Monday – Friday   (7:30 A.M. – 5:00 P.M.)
Saturday	(8:00 A.M. – 12:00 N.N.)
5.2.	GUIDELINES in Borrowing Tools, Utensils, Equipment and Other Facilities:
5.2.1.	The requesting person fills out the requisition form indicating the items to be borrowed;
5.2.2.	The request is submitted to the immediate head for approval;
5.2.3.	The form is sent at least a day in advance to the office so the items can be prepared ahead of time;
5.2.4.	The requesting person should sign for the items received;
5.2.5.	The requesting person should indicate the date when to return the borrowed items;
5.2.6.	The requesting person may leave his/her ID if they will borrow any item(s) and will immediately return the said item on the same day;
5.2.7.	Any lost or damaged items should be reported immediately to the Home Economics Laboratory In− charge. Lost or damaged items must be replaced with the same type;
 
5.2.8.	Anybody with overdue borrowed items will be barred from borrowing until such items are returned or replaced if damaged or lost;
5.2.9.	The requesting person with unreturned, lost or damaged item during inventory period will not be cleared. He/she will be charged with equivalent amount of the lost or damaged item; and
5.2.10.	The amount of lost item should be paid at the Finance Office;
5.3.	THE USE OF HOME ECONOMICS LABORATORY
5.3.1.	The requesting person fills out the request form and should follow guideline numbers 2 and 3;
5.3.2.	The requesting person should inform the Home Economics Laboratory In−charge if anybody will stay overnight. In this case, a permit to stay overnight should be asked from the President's Office; and
5.3.3.	The person who will stay at the building overnight or a number of days should register his/her name in the visitor's book at the security guard.
6.	HOSPITALITY MANAGEMENT LABORATORIES

6.1.	Procedures for Borrowing Tools & Equipment
6.1.1.	Kitchen items and/or equipment must be requested at least 3−5 days before the scheduled laboratory work;
6.1.2.	Fill out 2 copies of requisition form and completely filled− up properly with printed name and affix signature. The form is available from Custodian Office;
6.1.3.	Submit the form to the faculty−in−charge who shall affix his/her signature;
6.1.4.	After the faculty−in−charge affixes his/her signature, the student−borrower(s) will then submit the form to the Custodian who shall affix his/her signature;
6.1.5.	Students are strictly not allowed to enter the stockroom without permission; and
6.1.6.	Student−borrowers’ laboratory I.D. must be surrendered with the accomplished requisition form to the property custodian.
 
6.2.	After Using the Laboratory
6.2.1.	All borrowed kitchen items and/or equipment must be returned immediately after use;
6.2.2.	Returned kitchen items and/or equipment must be thoroughly cleaned and dried before the property custodian accepts them back;
6.2.3.	Replacement of the item/equipment due to loss/breakage shall be done per student or per group, depending on investigation results;
6.2.4.	Lost or damaged kitchen items and/or equipment shall be replaced with the same quality/brand or even better;
6.2.5.	The laboratory custodians shall follow−up the status of the replacement, and report it to the faculty−in−charge and the Program Head;
6.2.6.	The work station sinks, tables, stoves, and other appurtenances must be cleaned after using;
6.2.7.	Lights, gas tanks, exhaust fans, electric fans and the like must be turned off at the end of the laboratory session.
6.2.8.	The garbage bag, dish washing detergents, and related items/ supplies are under the care of the student−users and the instructor concerned within laboratory period;
6.2.9.	Student−users should wear hairnet to keep their hair in place when preparing and cooking food so as not to contaminate the food;
6.2.10.	Rings, earrings, bracelets, necklace, anklets, and make up should not be worn during laboratory activities;
6.2.11.	Students should wear proper prescribed laboratory uniform including black rubber shoes;
6.2.12.	Mobile phone is not allowed inside the Kitchen Laboratory. All personal belongings should be kept in the locker provided inside the laboratory;
6.2.13.	The use of the Kitchen Laboratory and/or the Function Room beyond or outside class scheduled activities is available for any one or group for school related activities with a letter of permission of the requesting student and faculty, and has the approval of the ITVET Head/ Supervisor, HRM Program Chairperson, and the Admin. Likewise, the student/s shall be accompanied by the faculty requesting for use and an HRM faculty or staff at the same time; and
 
6.2.14.	All laboratory ID’s should be surrendered to the laboratory custodian. Students who do not have laboratory ID are not allowed to enter the laboratory.
7.	ENGINEERING LABORATORIES
(Physics Laboratory, Construction Materials Laboratory, Soil Mechanics Laboratory, Drawing Laboratory, Surveying Laboratory, Hydraulics Laboratory)

7.1.	GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
7.1.1.	Never work alone in the laboratory. Students should be accompanied by the instructor or the laboratory in charge during the whole span of the experiment;
7.1.2.	Know the locations and operational details of all laboratory emergency safety equipment and evacuation routes;
7.1.3.	Know the location of eye sprinkler, shower room, fire extinguisher and electrical panel board;
7.1.4.	All aisles in the laboratory must be kept open at all times;
7.1.5.	Personal belongings should be kept below the table and out of the working area;
7.1.6.	Report all unsafe conditions, unusual odors and personal injuries to the instructor or a staff member immediately;
7.1.7.	Leave your laboratory bench as you found it, with the equipment neatly placed at the end of the table nearest to the center aisle. The laboratory bench should be free of debris;
7.1.8.	Stay out of restricted areas;
7.1.9.	Observe the warning signs inside the laboratory;
7.1.10.	Carefully follow all instructions from instructors and laboratory staff;
7.1.11.	Persons not following these rules will be asked to leave the laboratory;
7.1.12.	Material data sheets are located in the prep room and are available to anyone who wishes to read them;
7.1.13.	Do not lift heavy equipment without assistance.
7.1.14.	Do not reach for supplies on high shelves without the use of a step stool and assistance;
7.1.15.	Handle all equipment with care; make sure that you understand the proper use and limitations of all the
 
equipment. When in doubt, ask the instructor or the in− charge personnel;
7.1.16.	Read all the instruction written on the manual before starting the experiment:
7.1.17.	Only materials and equipment authorized by the instructor should be used in the experiments;
7.1.18.	No horse playing or loitering inside the laboratory to prevent bumps with the other students;
7.1.19.	Students should not begin working or gathering supplies and equipment until their instructor is present;
7.1.20.	Do not touch any equipment or supplies without specific authorization;
7.1.21.	Do not allow laser light to go into your eyes. Do not position a laser so that its light may go directly or reflect into someone's eyes;
7.1.22.	All experiment should be approved by the instructor; and
7.1.23.	All accidents should be reported to the teacher immediately no matter how minor or major it is.


7.2.	PERSONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
7.2.1.	Eating and drinking are not permitted in the laboratory;
7.2.2.	Wear appropriate clothing and required protective covering while in the laboratory. No one will be permitted in the laboratory with bare feet, sandals, or shoes with exposed toes;
7.2.3.	Jewelry’s such as rings, watches and bracelets, and necklaces should be taken off before conducting any laboratory exercises;
7.2.4.	Soft contact lenses must not be worn in the laboratory. Eye damage may occur;
7.2.5.	Never touch electrical outlet with your bare hands;
7.2.6.	Smoking is not allowed inside the laboratory;
7.2.7.	Never taste chemicals. Never touch chemicals with your bare hands; and
7.2.8.	Hand should be washed thoroughly with soap at the conclusion of each laboratory activity.
 
8.	PSYCHOLOGY LABORATORY AND COUNSELING ROOM
8.1.	Students are not allowed to stay in the psychology laboratory unless it is their period for classes and simulation activities;
8.2.	Students must always help maintain the laboratory and counseling room clean;
8.3.	Students are not permitted to utilize the counseling room if the laboratory in−charge has not given his/her approval;
8.4.	Students are required to read and abide the general psychology laboratory guidelines posted on the wall as part of orientation on the first day of classes;
8.5.	Students are not permitted to eat inside the laboratory;
8.6.	Students are required to clean the tables and chairs after using them;
8.7.	Students must ensure that all chairs are put back in their proper places; and
8.8.	Students must not write anything on the table or wall.

9.	CRIMINOLOGY LABORATORIES

9.1.	GENERAL RULES
9.1.1.	Only officially enrolled students in a forensic subject can perform the laboratory activity in a scheduled time and date;
9.1.2.	All students/ and subject teachers entering the laboratory facilities are obliged to put their names in the attendance sheets provided in the laboratory before performing laboratory activities;
9.1.3.	The criminology laboratory room can only be used in criminology subjects with laboratory activities;
9.1.4.	Subject teacher must present his/her syllabus and topic guide content of her/his to the laboratory in – charge/ personnel;
9.1.5.	Before using the laboratory, student and subject teacher must undergo laboratory orientation to be facilitated by the laboratory – in charge or personnel;
 
9.1.6.	When entering Criminology Laboratory, students are not allowed to touch, operate any materials/equipment inside the criminology laboratory until instructed to avoid untoward accident;
9.1.7.	In case of breakage or damage of any laboratory equipment, the responsible student will pay or repair the damaged equipment;
9.1.8.	Before using the laboratory equipment, the user should check first for any defect and report it to the laboratory in−charge or personnel;
9.1.9.	Only the subject teacher can process the barrowing of any laboratory materials/equipment;
9.1.10.	The laboratory materials/equipment can only be released by the laboratory in – charge /personnel;
9.1.11.	Maintain proper decorum at all times while inside the laboratory;
9.1.12.	Practical jokes and prank are strictly prohibited inside the laboratory; and
9.1.13.	The laboratory in− charge/ personnel is not responsible for any loss of any things belonging to students. Hence, students are asked not to leave personal things unattended inside the laboratory.

9.2.	SPECIFIC RULES
9.2.1.	Wear laboratory gown, gloves and other personal protective equipment while working inside the laboratory specially when handling hazardous chemicals;
9.2.2.	Remove jewelrys while performing laboratory activity;
9.2.3.	Read the instruction before using any equipment;
9.2.4.	Read the label before using the needed materials for the laboratory activity;
9.2.5.	In case of emergency like direct contact with hazardous chemical, avoid touching any parts of your body; instead wash your hands in a running water in the washbasin/ washbowl provided inside the laboratory;
9.2.6.	In case of fire, immediately notify the subject teacher, laboratory in – charge /personnel or if you are trained to operate, use the fire extinguisher to extinguish the fire;
9.2.7.	Eating, smoking and drinking inside the laboratory are strictly prohibited;
 
9.2.8.	Female students with long hair are advised to wear hairnet to avoid accident that causes breaking or destroying laboratory equipment;
9.2.9.	Remove unnecessary material/equipment and keep the area clean;
9.2.10.	Place all bags and other unnecessary things in a designated area provided inside the laboratory;
9.2.11.	Properly dispose all waste materials in an appropriate waste container provided inside the laboratory;
9.2.12.	Turn off all ignition source after performing laboratory activity
9.2.13.	Clean the area before leaving;
9.2.14.	Thoroughly wash hands before leaving the area; and
9.2.15.	Return all unused materials/equipment before leaving the area.

10.	BUSINESS SIMULATION HUB

10.1.	The Business Simulation Hub will be used for classes that need an actual office setting. The Business Simulation Hub is intended for students to learn the use of office equipment, conduct business meetings and make plans for a business;
10.2.	A teacher who would use this hub should fill out the Logbook at the CABE Office, one (1) week before the date of usage;
10.3.	Professional behavior, language and attitude must be maintained at all times in this hub;
10.4.	The teacher should provide the proper orientation to the users of the hub;
10.5.	Proper handling of the equipment is expected at all times. If equipment will be damaged, it should be repaired or replaced by the person/persons who damaged it;
10.6.	Office supplies and equipment must not be taken out of the hub;
10.7.	All users are expected to maintain cleanliness and orderliness after using this room;
10.8.	Chairs, tables, supplies and equipment must be returned back in its designated place; and
10.9.	After using the room, the users must ensure that equipment are properly turned off and unplugged.
 


D.	GYMNASIUM

1.	REGULATIONS
1.1.	The gymnasium can only be accessed by requesting groups that have fully paid−up corresponding charges for usage. Bookings are confirmed only after presentation of the receipt of payment;
1.2.	Any damage or vandalism must be reported to the security guard assigned near the gymnasium;
1.3.	Costs for repair of damaged or vandalized property will be paid by the booking party and must be paid in full;
1.4.	All cars must be parked in the designated parking area;
1.5.	Fire can endanger lives of people. Thus, the group is discouraged to use fire in the activity;
1.6.	Alcoholic beverages are not allowed inside the gymnasium;
1.7.	The school is a smoke−free zone. Therefore, smoking is not allowed in all areas of the campus including the gymnasium;
1.8.	Any untoward incidents must be reported to the security guard on duty at the gymnasium entrance;
1.9.	Gymnasium is equipped with fire extinguishers and fire exits. In case of fire, the extinguishers must be used to put out fire; and
1.10.	The school reserves the right to deny the use of facilities to any person or organization. The school reserves the right to deny the privilege of continued use of facilities to any user who does not comply with the regulations.

2.	GUIDELINES
2.1.	The requesting party must secure and accomplish a request form from the office of the Director of General and Administrative Services;
2.2.	There will be no payment if it will be used for students' activities. Outsiders will be charged for the use of the place, chairs, water and electricity; and
2.3.	The requesting party will be charged for any damage or loss of equipment/property. Payment will be assessed at the Finance Office.
 
E.	USE OF SCHOOL FACILITIES

1.	Policy Overview

1.1	Primary Use: The facilities at Cor Jesu College are primarily for educational activities, prioritizing school−related functions.
1.2	Access for Students and School Organizations: Facilities are
available free of charge for Cor Jesu College students, clubs, and organizations.
1.3	Non-school Entities Usage: private and government organizations can use the facilities but must pay a fee established in advance.

2.	Rules and Regulations

2.1	Use and Procedures
2.1.1	Request Process: Requires a letter of request and a booking form, both managed through the Administrative and General Services Office (AGSO).
2.1.1	Payment: Private and government organizations must pay a fee, including a 50% deposit before use.
2.1.1	Availability and Restrictions: Facilities are not available during exam periods and are primarily for college
employees, students, and recognized organizations. Availability must be confirmed with the AGSO.
2.1.1	Parent and Alumni Use: Available if not in conflict with primary school activities.
2.2	General Rules

2.2.1	Approval Requirement: All student group activities need approval from the Dean.
2.2.1	Facility Access: Only AGSO employees can unlock facilities, and groups are responsible for turning off
 
utilities (lights, fans, air−conditioning units, and water) after use.
2.2.1	Supervision: Activities involving the Basic Education Department require teacher supervision.
2.2.1	Financial Responsibility: Groups must cover costs for any damages to school property during their use.
2.2.1	Restricted Access and Time Limits: Access is limited to approved area/s and time.
2.2.1	Prohibitions: Includes attachments to surfaces without AGSO approval, smoking, alcohol, drugs, weapons, and staying past 9:30 PM without special permission.

F.	USE OF SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION

1.	Policy Overview
1.1 Purpose of Use: School transportation facilities are strictly for school purposes, used primarily for transporting students and staff involved in school−related activities.
1.1 Accessibility: These transportation services are available at no cost to students when used for school−sanctioned events like academic competitions, sports, retreats, and recollections.

2.	Rules and Regulations

2.1	Use and Procedures
2.1.1	Request Process: Interested parties must submit a letter of request and fill out a "Vehicle Request Form" at the AGSO following approval.
2.1.1	Payment for Non-School Use: Private entities or school members using transportation for non−school purposes must pay a fee, including a 50% deposit before usage.
2.1.1	Availability: Transportation is subject to availability and must be confirmed through the AGSO.
 
2.2	General Rules
2.2.1	Conduct on Bus: Respect and obedience towards the driver are mandatory. Noise levels should be kept low, akin to classroom settings.
2.2.1	Riding Eligibility: Only authorized students may use the school transportation.
2.2.1	Behavioral Expectations: Prohibitions include throwing objects, profanity, eating, drinking, and the transportation of animals.
2.2.1	Safety and Security: Students must stay seated, keep the aisles clear, and use baggage compartments for large items. Vandalism and tampering with bus equipment are strictly forbidden.
2.2.1	Prohibited Items: The transportation of drugs, alcohol, tobacco, vaping materials, firearms, or any potential weapons is strictly banned.
2.2.1	Emergency and Device Policies: Emergency exits and safety devices must not be tampered with. Cell phone use is allowed only with headphones and must be muted otherwise.
1.	Picking Up Vehicles
3.1.	Vehicles may be picked up one hour before the scheduled trip;
3.2.	Inspect the vehicle for pre−existing damage before the scheduled trip. The driver should report all damages and recommend immediate repair to the Director of General and Administrative Services;
3.3.	Make sure that the vehicle is already in a full tank gas before leaving the school premises. If found out that it is running out of gas, the driver can use and present the Purchase Order Form attached to the Vehicle Request Form either to Sacred Heart Gas Station or Cor Jesu Shell Station for refueling; and
3.4.	Upon leaving the school premises, the driver should give the Trip Ticket to the guard on−duty at the entrance gate of the school.
 
2.	Returning a Vehicle
4.1.	Return the vehicle to its designated parking area immediately upon completion of the trip;
4.2.	Any items left behind inside the vehicle are turned over to the Office of the General and Administrative Services;
4.3.	Report to the Office of General and Administrative Services any mechanical defects upon return of the vehicle; and
4.4.	The driver should record and indicate the distance the vehicle traveled at the topmost portion of the Vehicle Request Form for appropriate charging. Submit this form to the Office of the General and Administrative Services.

3.	Request for Vehicle Form Instructions
The request party is advised to fill out the form completely to avoid inconvenience.

G.	REGULATIONS ON VEHICLES, BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES AND TRICYCLES ENTERING THE CAMPUS
1.	Only vehicles with school sticker will be allowed to enter the school campus;
2.	Owners or drivers of vehicles entering the campus are required to follow the traffic rules or regulations of the school;
3.	Any vehicle not coming regularly to the campus will be issued a visitor's pass at the gate upon entry to be returned upon leaving the campus;
4.	Parking is not allowed on lawns or field areas, unless such areas are indicated by signs like temporary parking areas;
5.	Vehicles are to be parked properly. One should make sure that his/her car occupies only one parking slot;
6.	Diagonal parking is observed when one is parking in front of the Beaudet Building;
7.	Parked vehicles should always be locked. The school will not be responsible for any loss of property inside the vehicles;
8.	Car stereos should be turned off while inside the campus. Blowing of horns is not allowed; and
9.	Bicycles, motorcycles and tricycles are not allowed in the school campus, except those given special permission.
 
H.	REGULATIONS ON VISITORS ENTERING THE CAMPUS
1.	Visitors are required to wear the school visitors' pass when they enter the campus and return the same before, they leave;
2.	Indecent attire as defined by the school will not be allowed. Wearing of earrings is taboo;
3.	Any person must surrender himself or herself for routine inspection at the main gate;
4.	Guns, knives and sharp objects must be surrendered to the security guards and reclaimed before leaving the campus; and
5.	Bags, luggage and others must be opened and thoroughly inspected before they are brought inside.

I.	REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES ON EMERGENCY CASES
1.	Safety Protocol
In case of emergency that requires everyone to move out of classrooms, laboratories, offices and other buildings in the campus the following are to be executed:

1.1.	In case of FIRE:
At the notice of any fire incident, teachers, staff and students of a particular affected building are asked to STAY CALM and upon the instruction and direction of the teacher or person in−charge, the following are to be done:
1.1.1.	Leave the room immediately. Proceed to the nearest building exit and go to the nearest Designated Safe Place (DSP);
1.1.2.	Walk quickly but calmly. Do not run and push anybody along the way;
1.1.3.	If the building is covered by smoke or when the exit passage is in smoke, be aware that probably clean air shall be several inches off the floor, get down and crawl toward the nearest building exit going to the Designated Safe Place (DSP); and
1.1.4.	Stay at the Designated Safe Place (DSP) until further instruction. Your teacher or person in charge will check the attendance to make sure that everyone is able to evacuate safely.
 
1.2.	In case of EARTHQUAKE:
At the start of the quake, teachers, staff and students should STAY CALM and upon the instruction of teacher or person in charge, the following are to be executed:

1.2.1.	Stay put and perform duck, cover and hold;
DUCK.	Stoop down on your knees and head bowed down;
COVER.	Take cover under desks, tables, corner, doorway or other sturdy furniture. Cover head with your bag or book or hard material within your reach. Move away from windows, shelves and heavy objects that may fall; and
HOLD.	Get hold and stay in the position until the ground
stops shaking.
1.2.2.	Almost immediately after shaking and upon the instruction of the teacher, proceed to the exit passage going to the Designated Safe Place (DSP);
1.2.3.	Walk quickly but calmly. Do not run and push anybody along the way; and
1.2.4.	Stay at the Designated Safe Place (DSP) until further instruction. Your teacher will check the attendance to make sure that everyone is able to evacuate safely.

2.	Designated Safe Places DSP
Designated Safe Places (DSP) are designated open spaces in the campus in which members of the CJC community are advised to go to during emergency evacuation. They are considered to be safe spots because they are a little away from buildings, trees, electric posts and other objects which may cause harm during fire or earthquake. The following are the Designated Safe Places (DSP) of the campus.
 
Code	DSP Name	Area Covered
DSP 1	Parking Area Fronting the Coindre Building	Student Benches Area (near the main guard house), Taekwondo Room, Research Ethics Committee Room, PE room,  Fitness  Room,   CSG
office, Clinic, Varsity Dorm
DSP 2	Coindre Ground	Coindre Building, School Canteen, Student Lounge, Student Benches Area −Coindre Atrium)
DSP 3	Raymund	Building	Center Ground	Raymond	Building,	Student Benches Area
DSP 4	Parking Space fronting Abangan Building extending to one lane of road	Offices at Abangan Building
DSP 5	Piazza	Bouley	Building,	EdTech,
Polycarp Building
DSP 6	Open Ground fronting Geyrozaga Building / Pre− school Playground	Geyrozaga Building
DSP 7	Open Space Fronting Brother’s
House	Brother’s House
DSP 8	Parking Space – Right Side of the Library	Library
DSP 9	BED Elementary Center Ground	Chamberlain Building
DSP 10	Open Space – left Side Back of the Gym	Almendras Gym
DSP 11	Open Space – Right Side Back of the Gym, Fronting Idzu & Ypil Building	Almendras Gym, Canteen, Ypil Building, Idzu Building
DSP 12	Miserior Building Center Ground / Basketball Open Court	Almendras	Gym,	Miserior Building
DSP 13	BED Administrative Building Pathway − Extending outside to Estrada 3rd road (one lane)	Norbert Building
 
3.	Incident Command System
The following are the basic command structures and systems applicable only to Cor Jesu College which has to be activated during incidents of fire or earthquake that need system of control and management of people in the campus particularly evacuation management and risk reduction control during such incidents.
3.1.	Evacuation Management
3.1.1.	Safety Protocol Orientation and Reminders. Teachers, office heads, activity organizers shall regularly give orientation and reminders of the safety protocol for emergency evacuation.
3.1.2.	Command for Evacuation. Teachers, office heads, event organizers shall responsibly give the instruction and direction of the evacuation procedure during incidents of fire or earthquake.
3.1.3.	Head Count and Assessment. Teachers, office heads, activity organizers shall conduct quick count of the respective classes, officemates and activity participants to assess that no one is injured or left behind.
3.1.4.	Reporting to the nearest member of ICRT. After evacuation, quick count and assessment have been done, teachers, office heads, activity organizers shall give report to the nearest member of the Incident Command Response Team (ICRT) if there are incidents needed for first aid response, retrieval operation or any other response needed.
3.2.	Response Team Control
3.2.1.	Incident Command System (ICS) Activation. During the occurrence of fire or earthquake, incident command system shall be activated simultaneously while evacuation procedures are going on.
3.2.2.	Command Post and Deployment of Response Team. Upon activation of the ICS, command post shall be established and members of the Incident Command Response Team shall immediately proceed to their respective assigned DSP and monitor the ongoing evacuation.
3.2.3.	Reporting and Updating. Upon establishment of the post and deployment of the response team, the incident commander shall call the attention of all the incident
 
command response team/ responders to give reports and updates of their respective assigned post.
3.2.4.	Report Processing. Reports of eventualities like cases that need first aid response, retrieval operation and others shall be catered to by the responders (ICRT) in their respective assigned DSPs which have to be reported likewise to the command post for appropriate action.
3.2.5.	Response Action. Upon the report of the respective responders of the eventualities which requires first aid, retrieval operation and others, the incident commander shall now activate first aid responders or medical teams, retrieval operatives, fire responders or transportation team (depending on the situation) and order them respectively to proceed to area for the needed response action.
Note:
If response action coming from outside is needed due to the intensity or gravity of the incident, like the need for disaster responders, fire trucks or ambulance coming from the City or Province, the incident commander shall coordinate and communicate with the Safety and Security Officer of the school to make the emergency request for outside responders.

3.3.	Incident Aftermath Action
3.3.1.	Reporting to the Responsible Person. Once needed response action had been executed appropriately and everything has settled down, like checking of the building after earthquake or fire, the incident commander shall now report to the immediate responsible person − VP− Academics or the VP−Administration (alternatively in case of the absence of one) regarding the executed action in response to the occurring incident and the over−all status of the evacuation. The incident commander shall also ask the responsible person as to the over−all course of action of the institution after the incident, like dismissing of classes or office works.
 
3.3.2.	Dissemination of the Course of Action. The incident commander upon the order of the responsible person, shall give the information to the member of the ICRT to disseminate the course of action to all teachers or office heads in the respective DSPs.
3.3.3.	Execution of the incident aftermath action. Teachers, office heads and event organizers shall facilitate the execution of the incident aftermath course of action in an orderly manner as relayed by the ICRT in the respective DSPs.

4.	Safety Protocol in Case of Bomb Threat or Presence of any Explosive Devices
The presence of an explosive device and/or notification of a bomb threat are both situations that the teachers, staff, and students must be prepared to deal with calmly and professionally. Although many bomb threats turn out to be hoaxes, they must be taken seriously in order to protect students, faculty, staff, and visitors.
4.1.	Receiving a Threat
A bomb threat could be communicated verbally, in writing, or via phone or social media sites. The majority of bomb threats are made over the phone. A bomb threat call is typically made for one of two reasons: the caller wants to reduce personal injury and is certain of the explosive device's existence or the caller wants to disturb daily routines by provoking fear and panic.

4.1.1.	Phone Threat
a.	Remain Calm & DO NOT HANG UP. If possible, signal other students, teachers, and staff to listen to the call;
b.	Immediately notify the Safety and Security Officer, Teachers, or Security Guards;
c.	Note down the phone number the caller is using to call;
d.	Write down the exact wording of the threat;
e.	Keep the caller on the line for as long as possible and use the Bomb Threat Checklist (Attachment 1) to gather as much information as you can; and
f.	If possible, record the call.
 
4.1.2.	Verbal Threat
a.	If the perpetrator leaves, note which direction they went to;
b.	Immediately notify the Safety and Security Officer, Teachers, or Security Guards;
c.	Write down the exact wording of the threat;
d.	Note the description of the person who made the threat:
i.	Name (if known)
ii.	Gender
iii.	Body size (height/weight)
iv.	Distinguishing features
v.	Type/color of clothing
vi.	Hair & eye color
vii.	Voice (loud, deep, accent, etc.)

4.1.3.	Written Threat (posted in any social media, text message, email, letter, or any other form of written note)
a.	Immediately notify the Safety and Security Officer, Teachers, or Security Guards;

b.	Note the following:
i.	Date/time/location document was found
ii.	Any situations or conditions surrounding the discovery/delivery; and
iii.	Full names of any person who saw the threat

c.	Secure the original note of the threat.
i.	If the threat is through a note or letter;
−	Do not alter the item in anyway;
−	If small/removable, place in a bag or envelope;
−	If large/stationary, secure the location;
ii.	If it was sent through text message,
−	leave the message open on your cellphone, laptop, or computer;
−	Make sure that you take a screenshot of the actual text message;
−	Take note of the cellphone number of the sender.
 
iii.	If it was sent through an email,
− Leave the message open on your cellphone, laptop, or computer.
− Make sure that you take a screenshot of the actual email. Please ensure to include the subject line, the email address of the sender, and the date and time it was sent.
iv.	If it was posted through any social media:
− Make sure that you take a screenshot of the actual post. Please ensure to include the account name of the person who posted it as well as the date when it was posted.

4.2.	Incident Command System
The following are the basic command structures and systems applicable only to Cor Jesu College which has to be activated during incidents of Bomb Threat or in a presence of any explosive devices that need a system of control and management of people in the campus particularly evacuation management and risk reduction control during such incidents.

4.2.1.	Upon receiving the report of any bomb threat or reports of the presence of explosives the Safety and Security Officer must assess the report thoroughly. The facts and context must be considered before determining whether there is a potential threat.
a.	LOW RISK. Lacks Realism: A threat that poses minimal risk to the school and public safety. The probable motive is to cause disruption.
i.	The threat is vague and indirect;
ii.	Information contained within the threat is inconsistent, implausible, or lacks detail; and
iii.	Caller is definitely known and has called numerous times.
 
b.	MEDIUM RISK. Increased Level of Realism: Threat that could be carried out, although it may not appear entirely realistic.
i.	Threat is direct and feasible;
ii.	Wording in the threat suggests the perpetrator has given some thought to how the act will be carried out;
iii.	May include indications of a possible place and time;
iv.	No strong indication the perpetrator has taken preparatory steps, although there may be some indirect reference pointing to that possibility;
v.	Indication that the perpetrator has details regarding the availability of components needed to construct a bomb; and
vi.	Increased specificity to the threat. (e.g. “I’m serious!” or “I really mean this!”)
c.	HIGH RISK. Specific and Realistic: The threat appears to pose an immediate and serious danger to the safety of others.

i.	Threat is direct, specific, and realistic; may include names of possible victims, specific time, and location of the device;
ii.	Perpetrator provides his/her identity.
iii.	Threat suggests concrete steps have been taken toward carrying out the threat; and
iv.	Perpetrator indicates they have practiced with a weapon or have had the intended victim(s) under surveillance.

4.2.2.	In case a SUSPICIOUS ITEM is found: A suspicious item is anything (e.g., package, vehicle) that is reasonably believed to contain explosives, an IED or other hazardous material that requires a bomb technician to further evaluate it. Potential indicators are threats, placement, and proximity of the item to people and valuable assets. Examples include unexplainable wires or electronics, other visible bomb−like components, unusual sounds, vapors, mists, or odors.
 
Generally, anything that is Hidden, Obviously suspicious, and not Typical (HOT) should be deemed suspicious.
a.	DO NOT touch, tamper with, or move the item;
b.	Immediately report the suspicious item to the security guards on duty or the Safety and Security Officer; and
c.	The Safety and Security officer will assess the threat risk if there is a need for law enforcement to step in and if there is a need for evacuation.

4.2.3.	If the threat turns out to be Medium or High Risk, immediately call Law Enforcement for assistance.
a.	The safety and security officer will then authorize the evacuation of students, Faculty, and Staff to the designated safe places. Ensure that those with special needs receive assistance in evacuating;
b.	Students, Faculty, and Staff should complete a visual check of the classroom/building as they exit. Report any unusual objects or activity and do not touch any suspicious items. Wait for Law enforcement to begin the search;
c.	Establish a command post at least 300 feet from any of the campus buildings; and
d.	Employ runners to communicate with the Faculty, Staff, and Students at designated assembly areas.

NOTE:
Use of radio communications is NOT recommended unless the area has been searched and cleared. The Incident Command System will be similar to the guidelines on emergency evacuation and incident command system in case of fire and earthquake incidents.

J.	CAMPUS SECURITY AND SAFETY
The security officer is in charge to monitor the workplace activities to ensure that workers comply with school policies and government safety regulations. Particularly, the security officer has responsibilities pertaining to safety development, safety inspections and safety training.
 
1.	OBJECTIVES
1.1.	To patrol and monitor hallways, stairwells, toilet facilities, outside facilities, and other public and unsubstantiated places of the school to ensure the safety and well−being of students and staff and the security of the facility;
1.2.	To ensure a smooth traffic flow of students through the hallways, exits and entrances, assisting students with on−time arrival to classes;
1.3.	To assist with supervision in the morning arrival and afternoon dismissal of students;
1.4.	To remove disruptive students from classes when needed;
1.5.	To Assist the emergency responders, police, and emergency personnel in handling emergencies or disruptive situations.
1.6.	To encourage and ensure that students wear identification card;
1.7.	To assist visitors with directions and secure proper identification;
1.8.	To challenge unauthorized visitors and escort them to exits;
1.9.	To report any disciplinary infractions, unauthorized visitors, and acts of vandalism to the (BED) Basic Education Department Prefect of Student Formation or College Prefect of Student Formation;
1.10.	To notify the School President, Principal, Police, and/or (IC) Incident Commander of any emergency, potentially dangerous, or unusual situations;
1.11.	To notify immediately appropriate personnel of evidence of substance abuse, child abuse, child neglect, severe medical or social conditions, potential suicide or individuals appearing to be under the influence of alcohol, controlled substances;
1.12.	To participate in appropriate in−service and workshop programs;
1.13.	To promote student responsibility for behavior and attitude by serving as a role model and dressing and grooming professionally; and
1.14.	To display ethical and professional behavior in working with students, parents, school personnel, and outside agencies associated with the school.

2.	PROGRAMS
2.1.	Disaster Risk Reduction Programs
2.1.1.	Fire and Earthquake Drill. Fire and Earthquake Drill is a simulated exercise for emergency circumstances or incidents designed to practice the ability of the members
 
of Cor Jesu College community to make appropriate response and action. The drill aims to familiarize the emergency procedure in terms of evacuation proceeding to the designated safe places during fire or earthquake incidents with the hope that the exercise shall lessen panic and eventually help save lives. The following are the drill procedures:
a.	Pre-Drill Activity
Classes and offices shall conduct the following orientation
i.	Safety protocol;
ii.	Designated Safe Places;
iii.	Process of exiting from the classrooms and offices going to the assigned DSP; and
iv.	Reminder for students to always follow the instruction of the teacher and that they have to actively participate in and take the drill seriously.


b.	During the Drill Activity
For fire drill, the Siren sound is a cue for everyone to evacuate and proceed to the nearest designated DSP. For earthquake drill, the alarm is a cue for everyone to perform the duck, cover, and hold for 1 minute, followed by evacuation to the nearest designated safe places.
i.	Teachers and office heads shall execute evacuation management, namely: command for evacuation; head count and assessment; and reporting of updates to the nearest member of the Incident Command Response Team (ICRT);
ii.	Incident Command Response Team shall perform the response team control, namely: ICS activation, Deployment of Response Team, Reporting  and  Updating,  Report  Processing,
Response Action; and
iii.	The incident commander shall facilitate the incident aftermath action for the termination of the drill, namely: Reporting to the Responsible
 
Officer (VP−Acad or VP−Admin), Dissemination and Execution of the Course of Action.

c.	Post-Drill Activity
i.	Classes or offices shall conduct evaluation session for the purpose of assessing and improving the evacuation management; and
ii.	Incident Command Response Team shall conduct evaluation session for the purpose of assessing and improving the system of control and the over− all process of the drill.

2.2.	Security and Safety Orientation
2.2.1.	Campus Security Prohibition: The security guards see to it that the prohibition on the carriage of guns, knives, and all kinds of deadly weapon is implemented. To this end, the security guards are authorized to frisk all persons for concealed weapons, knives, fire crackers etc. Legitimate holders of weapons are asked to deposit them with the security guards; and
2.2.2.	A visitor should leave their personal I.D. card and wear the
visitor’s I.D. card issued by the security guard.

2.3.	Guidelines for The Availment of Cor Jesu College Gate Pass Car Sticker
2.3.1.	Issuance of Gate Pass Car Stickers is Limited to: Administrators, faculty, staff, students, alumni, parents, guardians; Legitimate service providers, concessioners, contractors; school vehicles, Brothers’ vehicles and religious congregations.


2.3.2.	Gate Pass Car Sticker Prohibition
a.	Fake/altered gate pass sticker is prohibited;
b.	Application of car sticker is renewable every year (failure of the vehicle owner to renew the gate pass car sticker shall not be allowed to gain access in the school premises);
c.	Gate Pass Sticker will only be used for the vehicle described in the application form;
 
d.	Gate Pass Sticker should be attached to the windshield.
e.	The AGSO office will issue the vehicle sticker after all the requirements needed have been complied.
f.	For Old Applicants that will be using the same vehicle; no need to present any requirements aside from the fully accomplished application form;
g.	For New Applicants, present the following:
i.	Fully accomplished application form;
ii.	For mortgaged vehicle, a photocopy of the certification from the bank or financing corporation;
iii.	For those using company vehicles, a photocopy of company ID card and / or certification that the vehicle is assigned to the user;
iv.	For vehicles owned by non−immediate relatives of students and employees, aunts, uncles, &grandparents, authorization letter and proof of relationship (i.e. marriage contract, birth certificate, notarized affidavit justifying the relationship to the (AGSO) Administrative and General Services for approval;
v.	Certification from (AGSO) Head if applicant is a concessionaire or supplier of the concessionaire; and
vi.	Letter of request for family drivers, 2 x 2 ID picture of the driver, and copy of the driver’s license for vehicles with a family driver who will wait inside the campus while the passenger (student) is attending classes.


2.4.	Cor Jesu College CCTV Surveillance System Policy

2.4.1.	General Principles
a.	Cor Jesu College is committed to enhancing the quality of life of the academic community and other stakeholders by integrating the best practices of campus safety with the state−of the−art technology. One important component in the school’s program is
 
the use of closed−circuit television (CCTV) surveillance system;
b.	CCTV is used to deter and/ or detect unlawful behavior in and around the school campus thereby enhancing the safety and security of all stakeholders and school property;
c.	Information obtained via CCTV will be used exclusively for security and law enforcement purposes. The information will only be released when authorized by the School President; and
d.	CCTV monitoring is limited to uses that do not violate privacy as defined by the law; and Images and other related data collected by CCTV are properties of Cor Jesu College.
2.4.2.	Responsibilities
a.	The Director of Administrative and General Services has the responsibility to authorize all CCTV monitoring headed by the Security and Safety Officer, for the safety and security of all stakeholders of Cor Jesu College;
b.	The day−to−day management of CCTV will be the responsibility of the Director of the Administrative and General Services;
c.	The Director of the Administrative and General Services sets precautionary measures to control access to CCTV equipment and to prevent unauthorized access and misuse;
d.	The Director of Administrative and General Services is authorized to oversee and coordinate the use of CCTV monitoring equipment at the school. She/he has the primary responsibility for disseminating and implementing policy and procedures; and
e.	The Director of the Administrative and General Services will monitor new developments in the law and industry standards and protections, and initiates for their implementation.
2.4.3.	Procedures
a.	The operator of the CCTV surveillance system will perform his/her duties consistent with the policy. He
 
or she must certify that he/she has understood the policy and procedures governing CCTV usage;
b.	The operator of the CCTV will not target or track individuals arbitrarily or based on race, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability or classifications protected by law;
c.	Footage or video recording will be stored for a period not to exceed 14 days and will then be erased, unless retained as part of a criminal investigation or court proceedings (Civil and Criminal), or other bona fide use as approved by the School President and Director of the Administrative and General Services;
d.	The CCTV monitoring center will be restricted to unauthorized person or operator to maintain the confidentially of the data recorded; and
e.	Only the security and safety officer and/or those person/s authorized by the School President and Director of the Administrative and General Services can operate or view the CCTV monitor; and
f.	The requesting party must write a letter request and duly approved by the school president or the Director of Administrative and General Services before the CCTV information will be released.

K.	POLICY ON WASTE DISPOSAL

1.	Purpose:
The Cor Jesu College community generates solid wastes from its canteen operations, offices, classrooms, and other human activities. For this reason, the school installs garbage bins in all conspicuous places where signs “bio−degradable” and “non−biodegradable” are printed on each bin. All wastes are identified for proper disposal to protect the environment; this is also done in compliance with the government’s RA 9003, otherwise known as the Ecological Waste Management Act of 2000.

2.	Scope:
This policy addresses the disposal of all wastes generated by Cor Jesu College. Within this policy are the procedures on the process to determine the storage and disposal requirements on all wastes generated on campus. The policy applies to all departments, colleges, and offices
 
and is intended to serve as general guidance on the minimum requirements of waste disposal.

3.	Procedures:

1.1.	Campus solid wastes are placed into the garbage bins. These include office waste, classroom waste, and any general waste that is commonly disposed of in a trash can for pick up by City dump truck garbage collector. Biodegradable materials should be separated from the non−biodegradable materials and placed into the nearest garbage bins.
1.1.1	Office staff, teachers, student assistants (SAs), and canteen concessioners are responsible for depositing their waste in the nearest appropriate trash cans.
1.1.2	Maintenance staff from the Administrative and General Services Office (AGSO) whose responsibilities include emptying building and office trash cans, are responsible for collecting materials from buildings and depositing them in the nearest garbage bin. They are responsible for depositing all waste from the garbage bins into the polyethylene bags.
1.1.3	All polyethylene bags with waste in them should be brought and deposited in the general depository area.
1.1.4	Maintenance staff are responsible for ensuring that all polyethylene waste bags make it into the city dump truck and debris is not left around the general depository area as a result of their disposal efforts.
1.1.5	The city dump truck garbage collector is on a routine service schedule to prevent the overflowing of waste in the general depository area.
1.2	Universal wastes include batteries and fluorescent lamps. These materials are collected by the electrician from the Administrative and General Services Office (AGSO)
1.3	Recyclable, Recoverable, or Reusable Materials. Office staff, teachers, student assistants (SAs), and canteen concessioners are responsible for properly sorting as much of their recyclable, recoverable, or reusable materials as possible and placed them to any recycling receptacle to reduce their environmental impact. These materials include, but are not limited to, the following:
1.3.1	Metal includes aluminum, steel, copper, tin, and brass.
 
1.3.2	Cardboard should be flattened.
1.3.3	Electronics include CDs and DVDs, cell phones and chargers, used ink jet cartridges, tapes, jewel cases, computers, printers, and TVs. Small electronics can be deposited at the ICT Office.
1.3.4	Glass includes any clear and colored broken glass.
1.3.5	Plastics include coffee cup lids, yogurt cups, plastic bottles and caps, plastic bags, and plastic wrap.
1.3.6	White Paper includes any white paper such as printer/copy paper, notebook paper, and spiral bound notebooks.
1.3.7	Mixed Office Paper includes colored paper, newspaper, magazines, envelopes, phone books, post−it notes, and index cards.
 
Appendix
APPENDIX A

EXCERPTS FROM REPUBLIC ACT NO. 9165
(An Act Instituting the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002, Repealing Republic Act No. 6425, Otherwise Known as the Dangerous Drugs Act of 1972, as Amended, Providing Funds Therefore, and for Other Purposes)

ARTICLE III

DANGEROUS DRUGS TEST AND RECORD REQUIREMENTS
Section 36. Authorized Drug Testing. − Authorized drug testing shall be done by any government forensic laboratories or by any of the drug testing laboratories accredited and monitored by the DOH to safeguard the quality of test results. The DOH shall take steps in setting the price of the drug test with DOH accredited drug testing centers to further reduce the cost of such drug test. The drug testing shall employ, among others, two (2) testing methods, the screening test which will determine the positive result as well as the type of the drug used and the confirmatory test which will confirm a positive screening test. Drug test certificates issued by accredited drug testing centers shall be valid for a one−year period from the date of issue which may be used for other purposes. The following shall be subjected to undergo drug testing.

a)	Applicants for driver's license. − No driver's license shall be issued or renewed to any person unless he/she presents a certification that he/she has undergone a mandatory drug test and indicating thereon that he/she is free from the use of dangerous drugs.
b)	Applicants for firearm's license and for permit to carry firearms outside of residence. − All applicants for firearm's license and permit to carry firearms outside of residence shall undergo a mandatory drug test to ensure that they are free from the use of dangerous drugs: Provided, that all persons who by the nature of their profession carry firearms shall undergo drug testing.
c)	Students of secondary and tertiary schools. − Students of secondary and tertiary schools shall pursuant to the related rules and regulation
 
as contained in the school's student handbook and with notice to the parents, undergo a random drug testing: Provided, that all drug testing expenses whether in public or private schools under this Section will be borne by the government.
d)	Officer and employees of public and private offices. − Officers and employees of undergo a random drug test as contained in the company's work rules and regulations, which shall be borne by the employer, for purposes of reducing the risk in the workplace. Any officer or employee found positive for use of dangerous drugs shall be dealt with administratively which shall be a ground for suspension or termination, subject to the provision of Article 282 of the Labor Code and pertinent provisions of the Civil Service Law.
e)	Officers and members of the military, police and other law enforcement agencies. − Officers and members of the military, police and other law enforcement agencies shall undergo an annual mandatory drug test.
f)	All persons charged before the prosecutor's office with a criminal offense having an imposable penalty of imprisonment of not less than six (6) years and one (1) day shall have to undergo a mandatory drug test.
g)	All candidates for public office whether appointed or elected both in the national or local government shall undergo a mandatory drug test.

Section 37. Issuance of False or Fraudulent Drug Test Results. − Any person authorized, licensed or accredited under this Act and its implementing rules to conduct drug examination or test, who issues false or fraudulent drug test results knowingly, willfully or through gross negligence, shall suffer the penalty of imprisonment ranging from six (6) years to one (1) day to twelve
(12) years and a fine ranging from One hundred thousand pesos (P100,000.00) to Five hundred thousand pesos (P500,000.00)
An additional penalty shall be imposed through the revocation of the license to practice his/her profession in case of a practitioner, and the closure of the drug testing center.
Section 38. Laboratory Examination or Test on Apprehended/Arrested Offenders. − Subject to Section 15 of this Act, any person apprehended or arrested for violating the provisions of this Act shall be subjected to screening laboratory examination or test within twenty−four (24 hours, if the apprehending or arresting officer has reasonable ground to believe that the person apprehended or arrested, on account of physical signs or symptoms or other visible or outward manifestation, is under the influence of dangerous
 
drugs. If found to be positive, the results of the screening laboratory examination or test shall be challenged within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the result through a confirmatory test conducted in any accredited analytical laboratory equipment with a gas chromatograph/mass spectrometry equipment or some such modern and accepted methods, if confirmed the same shall be prima facie evidence that such person has used dangerous drugs, which is without prejudice for the prosecution for other violations of the provisions of this Act: Provided, That a positive screening laboratory test must be confirmed for it to be valid in a court of law.

Section 39. Accreditation of Drug Testing Centers and Physicians. - The DOH shall be tasked to license and accredit drug testing centers in each province and city in order to assure their capacity, competence, integrity and stability to conduct to laboratory examinations and tests provided in this Article, and appoint such technical and other personnel as may be necessary for the effective implementation of this provision. The DOH shall also accredit physicians who shall conduct the drug dependency examination of a drug dependent as well as the after−care and follow−up program for the said drug dependent. There shall be a control regulations, licensing and accreditation division under the supervision of the DOH for this purpose.

For this purpose, the DOH shall establish, operate and maintain drug testing centers in government hospitals, which must be provided at least with basic technological advanced equipment and materials, in order to conduct the laboratory examination and test herein provided, and appoint, such qualified and duly trained and other personnel as may be necessary for the effective implementation of this provision.
 
ARTICLE IV

PARTICIPATION OF THE FAMILY, STUDENTS, TEACHERS AND SCHOOL AUTHORITIES IN THE ENFORCEMENT OF THIS ACT
Section 41. Involvement of the Family. - The family being the basic unit of the Filipino society shall be primarily responsible for the education and awareness of the members of the family on the ill effects on dangerous drugs and close monitoring of family members who may be susceptible to drug abuse.
Section 42. Student Councils and Campus Organization – All elementary, secondary and tertiary school's student councils and campus organizations shall include in their activities a program for the prevention of and deterrence in the use of dangerous drugs, and referral for treatment and rehabilitation of students for drug dependence.

Section 43. School Curricula. - Instruction on drug abuse prevention and control shall be integrated in the elementary, secondary and tertiary curricula of all public and private schools, whether general, technical, vocational or agro−industrials as well as in non−forma, informal and indigenous learning systems. Such instructions shall include:
1)	Adverse effects of the abuse and misuse of dangerous drugs on the person, the family, the school and the community;
2)	Preventive measures against drug abuse;
3)	Health, socio−cultural, psychological, legal and economic dimensions and implications of the drug problem;
4)	Steps to take when intervention on behalf of a drug dependent in needed, as well as the services available for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug dependents; and
5)	Misconceptions about the use of dangerous drugs such as, but not limited to, the importance and safety of dangerous drugs for medical and therapeutic use as well as the differentiation between medical patients and drug dependents in order to avoid confusion and accidental stigmatization in the consciousness of the students.
Sec. 44. Heads, Supervisors, and Teachers of Schools. – For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of article 11 of this Act, all school heads, supervisors and teachers shall be deemed persons in authority and, as such, are hereby
 
empowered to apprehend, arrest or cause the apprehension or arrest of any person who shall violate any of the said provisions, pursuant to Section 5, Rule 113 of the Rules of Court. They shall be deemed persons in authority if they are in the school or within its immediate vicinity, or even beyond such immediate vicinity if they are in attendance at any school or class function in their official capacity as school heads, supervisors, and teachers.
Any teacher or school employee, who discovers or finds that any person in the school or within its immediate vicinity is liable for violating any of said provisions, shall have the duty to report the same to the school head or immediate superior who shall, in turn, report the matter to the proper authorities.

Failure to do so in either case, within a reasonable period from the time of discover of the violation shall, after due hearing, constitute sufficient cause for disciplinary action by the school authorities.
Section 45. Publication and Distribution of Materials on Dangerous Drugs. − With the assistance of the Board, the Secretary of the Department of Education (DepEd), the Chairman of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and the Director−General of the Technical Education and Skills, Development Authority (TESDA) shall cause the development, publication and distribution of information and support educational materials on dangerous drugs to the students, the faculty, the parents, and the community.
Section 46. Special Drug Education Center – With the assistance of the Board, the Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG), the National Youth Commission (NYC), and the office a special education drug center for out−of− school youth and the street children. Such Center which shall be headed by the Provincial Social Welfare Development Officer shall sponsor drug prevention programs and activities and information campaigns with the end in view of education the out−of−school youth and street children regarding the pernicious effects of drug abuse. The programs initiated by the Center shall likewise be adopted in all public and private orphanage and existing special centers for street children.
 
Random Drug Testing for HS and College to be implemented

Due to the passage of the Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002 or RA 9165, President Gloria Macapagal−Arroyo's expressed priority of addressing the escalating drug problem, government will implement the provisions of the law. In relation to schools, the law provides for random drug testing of students and other school personnel.
DepEd Secretary Edilberto De Jesus said that it is the obligation of the government to do something to suppress the threat posed by illegal drugs, which is more serious than Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome.

The Department of Education (DepEd) consulted with government agencies and the private sector on the operational guideline on random drug testing among secondary and tertiary students. Representatives from student and youth organizations. Parents and Teachers Community Associations, and state colleges and universities also participated in the workshop.
CEAP Executives Director Mariano U. Piamonte, Jr. represented CEAP and COCOPEA in the consultation as well as in the drafting of implementing guidelines. He likewise attended the public hearings (NCR, Luzon, and Visayas−Mindanao) where the draft guidelines were presented.
The hearings were conducted to ensure that careful deliberation on each provision will be made to safeguard the privacy and dignity of the students as well as the confidentiality of random drug test results.

DepEd Health and Nutrition Center (HNC) Director Thelma Santos said its must emphasize that principles have been formulated to serve as the framework for the guidelines.

She added. “Some of these principles highlight the primary responsibility of the family, the right of the students, confidentiality of drug test results and that random drug testing be implemented primarily for prevention and rehabilitation rather than law enforcement and punishment.”
Expenses for drug testing shall be borne by the government. However, the cost would be too high for government to shoulder if all students and personnel in all schools will be subjected to drug testing. Thus,
 
it will only be conducted in a number of schools (a sampling of the total) and on randomly selected individuals.

There are no penalties specifically provided in the law for individuals found to have taken illegal drugs. The schools can only impose penalties based on what is stated in their own student handbooks. Schools should then be reminded to make sure that there are provisions in their student handbook on drug abusers.
There is a possibility that COCOPEA will organize training seminars for guidance counselors on counseling drug dependents.

For schools to know more about the details of implementation, the general guidelines for the conduct of random drug testing for secondary and tertiary student have been reprinted in this issue of the CEAP Bulletin.
 
Republic of the Philippines
Office of the President DANGEROUS DRUGS BOARD
5th Floor CHAMP Building, Bonifacio Drive, Port Area, Manila
BOARD REGULATIONS NO. 6
Series of 2003

SUBJECT: General Guidelines for the Conduct of Random Drug Testing for Secondary and Tertiary Students

Pursuant to Section 36©, Article III of Republic Act No. 9165, the following guidelines are hereby promulgated:
The guidelines shall be applicable to the random drug testing of students in public and private secondary, tertiary/higher education institutions and post−secondary technical vocational schools. These guidelines outline the purposes of the random drug−testing program, as well as procedures and necessary consequences of a positive drug test result after confirmation.

All procedures undertaken shall take into account the ideals of fairness and rehabilitation and not isolation of the drug dependent. The school must not violate the constitutional rights to due process, equal protection and self−incrimination.
A.	GUIDING PRINCIPLES IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING IN SCHOOLS AND MANAGEMENT OF DRUG TEST RESULTS

1.	Government recognizes the primary responsibility of the family, particularly the parents for the education and awareness of its members of the ill effects of dangerous drugs.
2.	Parental involvement shall be maximized in the implementation of drug education, random drug testing treatment and rehabilitation of drug users and dependents.
3.	The school, with the assistance of Local Government Units (LGUs) and other agencies where the school is located, has the obligation to employ every reasonable means to provide a healthy and drug free− environment to its populace.
4.	Cognizant of the right of the student to continue and complete their studies, the government and the schools shall give emphasis to the
 
implementation of measures aimed at the guidance and counseling together with the treatment and rehabilitation of any student found to have used or to be dependent on dangerous drugs.
5.	Academic freedom of institutions of higher learning shall be respected in the implementation of random drug testing and all other pertinent provisions of RA 9165.
6.	The implementation of drug abuse prevention and education programs in schools shall be intensified as an integral part of the over−all demand reduction efforts of the government.
7.	The random drug testing shall be implemented as a collaborative undertaking of the government, the schools, the students and their parents. The whole process shall not in any manner be utilized to harass the students.
8.	Random drug testing shall be implemented primarily for prevention and rehabilitation.
9.	The drug−testing program shall guarantee and respect the personal privacy and dignity of the student.
10.	The test results shall be treated with utmost confidentiality.
11.	The drug test results shall be used in any criminal proceedings.

B.	PROCESS OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING

1.	To determine the prevalence of drug users among the students
2.	To assess the effectivity of school−based and community−based prevention programs
3.	To deter the use of illegal drugs
4.	To facilitate the rehabilitation of drug users and dependents
5.	To strengthen the collaboration efforts of identified agencies against the use of illegal drugs and in the rehabilitation of drug users and dependents

C.	DEFINITION OF TERMS
“Drug Counselor” shall mean a person trained in the techniques of guidance counseling particularly dealing with cases of drug dependency. The Drug Coordinator shall designate such person.

“Drug Testing Coordinator” shall be the point person in the school tasked with handling random drug testing which shall be the principal of a secondary school, the administrator of a technical vocational education and training
 
institution or the administrator appointed by the president/chief executive officer in tertiary institutions.

“Parents” shall, for purposes of these guidelines, include court appointed guardians,

“Random selection” refers to the unbiased process of selecting students who are to undergo drug testing.

“Rehabilitation” is the dynamic process, including after−care and follow−up treatment, directed towards the physical, emotional/psychological, vocational, social and spiritual change/enhancement of a drug dependent to enable him/her to live without dangerous drugs, enjoy the fullest life compatible with his/her capabilities and potentials and render him/her to become a law−abiding and productive member of the community.

“School” shall mean an institution that has as its primary purpose the education of students including secondary, tertiary and technical vocational education and training institutions.

“Selection Board” shall be the board constituted at the level of the school composed of the Drug Testing Coordinator as chairperson, one representative each from the students, faculty and parents as members. The authorized governing body duly recognized by their respective constituents shall choose the representatives from these stakeholders based on a set of selection criteria formulated for this purpose. In the absence of a parents' association, the School Head may appoint any parent who hall be a member of the Selection Board.

“Supervising Agency” shall refer to the government agency that exercises supervision over the school such as the Department of Education (DepEd), Commission on Higher Education (CHED), or the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA).
 
D.	PROCEDURES IN THE CONDUCT OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING
1.	Notification

The Supervising Agency through an appropriate order that includes these guidelines on random drug testing, shall inform all schools under its supervision about the government against illegal drugs.
The school's administration shall be required to explain these provisions and their procedures to the school community and when applicable, include these in the school's handbook or listing of procedures.

(The Supervising Agencies; Memorandum Circulars should include a list of DOH−accredited Testing Centers/Laboratories)
All students and their parents shall be notified in writing on the process and manner by which the random drug testing shall be conducted. Such notification may be sent at any time during the school term. Failure to return the acknowledgment receipt shall not be a bar to the conduct of the drug testing.

2.	Samples

a.	The Supervising Agency shall inform randomly selected schools on their inclusion in the random drug testing program.
b.	The whole student population of the school selected shall be included in the random sampling.
c.	The number of samples should yield a statistical 95% confidence level for the whole student population.
3.	Selection of Samples

a.	The Drug Testing Coordinator shall convene the Selection Board within five days from the receipt of notice from the Supervising Agency stating that the school is included in the program.
b.	On the day of the testing, the Selection Boar shall conduct the random selection of those to be tested.
d.	The Selection Board shall ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the random selection process.
e.	The selection process shall be random through a lottery, which may be computerized, or in any other manner that shall be agreed upon the by Board.
 
f.	The random selection of students and the drug testing shall be done on the same day.
g.	Prior to testing, the selected students shall be asked to reveal the prescription medicines, vitamins, food supplements that they had ingested within the past five (5) days. The Drug Testing Coordinator shall keep the listing and utilize this in the evaluation of the confirmatory drug test.
h.	The laboratory shall follow the DOH prescribed guidelines in the collection of urine specimens. Universal precautions shall be observed at all times. DOH Prescribed Guidelines shall be posted in strategies, places/visible areas of the school.
i.	The monitor assigned to ensure the integrity of the collection process should be of the same sex as the student.
I.	The drug testing shall be done in the school and conducted by a duly accredited drug−testing laboratory. The school, the through its respective health personnel, shall assist the Drug Testing Laboratory in the conduct of the drug testing.
j.	The Drug Testing Coordinator shall ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the random drug testing for the students, teachers, administration and personnel of the school. It is strongly recommended that the drug testing for students, the teachers, administration and personnel be done simultaneously.

4.	Treatment of Random Drug Test Results
a.	The results of the test shall be strictly confidential. No school shall publish or post results whether positive or negative.
b.	Any person who violates the rules of confidentiality of the results and selection shall be liable under Section 72 or RA 9165 and such other appropriate laws.
c.	The laboratory shall place the drug test result in a sealed envelope and deliver the same via personal service to the Drug Testing Coordinator. The Drug Testing Coordinator shall then inform all the students tested individually of the test results.
d.	In case the test results are positive, the Drug Testing Coordinator shall inform both the student and parent concerned that a confirmatory test shall be conducted. The student shall be told to inform his/her parents of the scheduled conference with the Drug Testing Coordinator. The student shall be advised to refrain from revealing the test results to other persons.
 
e.	During the schedule conference, the Drug Testing Coordinator shall relay to the parent full information on the process that shall be undertaken for the confirmatory test. In the event that the parents do not appear on the on the scheduled conference, the student shall be informed of the schedule of the confirmatory test.
f.	The confirmatory drug test shall be conducted in the same manner as the initial drug test.
g.	The results of the confirmatory test shall be transmitted by the laboratory in a sealed envelope and handed directly to the Drug Testing Coordinator.
h.	The Drug Testing Coordinator shall inform both parents and the student of the result of the test.
I.	The Drug Testing Coordinator shall not delegate such task of informing the student and parent to any other person, nor shall the Drug Testing Coordinator reveal the results of the test to any person other than the student and parent.
k.	First time positive confirmatory drug test result shall be not be a ground for expulsion or any disciplinary action against the student.
l.	The Drug Testing Coordinator shall refer the student and his/her parent to government−owned DOH−accredited facility or DOH−accredited government physician to determine the student's dependency level.
m.	The student may opt for a private DOH−accredited facility or physician from this initial determination provided it is at his/her own expense.
n.	In the event that it is determined that the student is a drug dependent the school may impose the appropriate sanctions against the student as provided for in the school's Student Handbook and the Manual of Regulations for Private Schools, provided that in the case of public secondary schools, if the student is later on found to have been rehabilitated, the student shall then be allowed to re−enroll.
o.	The student shall then undergo a three (3) month observation and counseling period under the supervision of the DOH−accredited facility or physician in consultation with the parent. Such process of observation and counseling shall be done in coordination with the Drug Counselor of the school.
p.	At the end of the three months, it is hoped that with the counseling done, the student will be properly rehabilitated.
If student shows no signs of improvement, recovery or fails the drug test the second time, the DOH−accredited facility or physician, may make a recommendation to the student, parent, and Drug Testing Coordinator to have the student referred to a DOH−accredited facility suited to the student's
 
level of dependency. If another drug testing is conducted for another period on the same student population, and the student is found positive the second time, the school shall proceed in accordance with Section 61, RA 9165.
The parent and the student may choose to enroll the student in a private rehabilitation center or program or opt to avail of the rehabilitation services of the government through a DOH−provision facility.

If the parents refuse to act, the school shall proceed in accordance to Sec. 61 of A 9165 without prejudice to the provision of Section 73, RA 9165.

E.	REPORTORIAL REQUIREMENTS OF RESULTS OF THE RANDOM DRUG TESTING
1.	The Drug Testing Coordinator, Drug Counselor and employees of DOH− accredited facilities, testing laboratories, shall not reveal the names of the students or test results to any other persons except to the student concerned of his/her parents.
2.	The aggregate test results from each school which shall not include the identities of the students tested, shall be submitted by the School Head to the Division Superintendent of DepEd for secondary schools, the Regional Director of CHED for tertiary schools and Training institution Administrator for TESDA for consolidation for the purpose of evaluating the efficacy and effectiveness of drug abuse prevention programs.
F.	TRAINING OF GUIDANCE COUNSELORS

The Department of Education, Commission on Higher Education, Technical Education and Skills Development Authority, the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency and Dangerous Drug Board in coordination with each other, shall formulate and conduct the training program for guidance counselors for the purpose of enhancing their skills in handling drug abuse prevention programs and handling drug dependency cases.
 
G.	EXPENSES OF THE PROGRAM

The Department of Health, in coordination with the Supervising Agencies shall designate the drug testing laboratories that shall be utilized for purposes of the program.
Payment of testing fees shall be done by the government thru Department of Health to the Drug Testing Laboratories.

H.	ENFORCEMENT OF COMPLIANCE

Students who refuse to undergo random drug testing shall be dealt with in accordance with the rules and regulations of the schools; provided that at no time shall refusal to undergo testing give rise to a presumption of drug use or dependency; provided further that the school many impose sanctions on such refusal other than the offense of drug use or dependency.
Schools that refuse to implement the random drug testing program shall be liable under Section 32 of RA 9165 without prejudice to other administrative sanctions imposed by the Supervising Agencies. The Supervising Agency shall report the same to the Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency (PDEA) and the Dangerous Drugs Board (DDB)
 
Miscellaneous Provisions

Separability clause. If any provision of these Guidelines or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, the other provisions of these Guidelines and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
Effectivity. These Guidelines shall take effect immediately after its approval by the Dangerous Drugs Board.


ADOPTED and APPROVED this 1st day of August, 2003 at Camp Crame, Quezon City.
JAIME M VIBAR
(Representing the President, Integrated Bar of the Philippines) Regular Member

MIGUEL A. PEREZ-RUBIO
(President, Katotohanan Foundation−NGO) Regular Member

MARIA MECEDITAS N. GUTIERREZ
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary of Justice) Ex−Officio Member

ANTONIO C. SANTOS
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary on National Defense) Ex−Officio Member

ANTONIO S. LOPEZ
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary on Health) Ex−Officio
JOSE ISIDRO N. CAMACHO
(Secretary of Finance) Ex−Officio Member
 
AGNES VST DEVANADERA
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary the Department of the Interior and Local Government)
Ex−Officio Member
LOURDES G. BALANON
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary of Social Welfare and Development)
Ex−Officio Member

FRANKLIN M. EBDALIN
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary of Foreign Affairs Ex−Officio Member

RAMON C. BACANI
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary of Education Ex−Officio Member
ROLANDO R. DIZON
(Chairman, Commission on Higher Education) Ex−Officio Member

ANSELMO S. AVENIDO JR.
(Director−General) Philippine Drug Enforcement Agency Ex−Officio Member
PAOLO BENIGNO A. AQUINO IV
(Chairperson, National Youth Commission) Ex−Officio Member

LUCITA S. LAZO
(Undersecretary, Representing the Secretary of Labor and Employment) Ex−Officio Member

BERNARDO T. LASTIMOSO
(Undersecretary, Permanent Member, Dangerous Drugs Board)

EDGAR C. GALVANTE
(Undersecretary, Permanent Member, Dangerous Drugs Board)
 
JOSE D. LINA JR.
Secretary, Department of Interior and Local Government and OIC, Chairman, Dangerous Drugs Board
Attested by:

EFREN Q. FERNANDEZ
Undersecretary
Executive Director, Dangerous Drugs Board
 
APPENDIX B

REPUBLIC ACT NO. 8049
AN ACT REGULATING HAZING AND OTHER FORMS OF INITIATION RITES IN FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES AND ORGANIZATIONS AND PROVIDING
PENALTIES THEREFORE

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines in Congress assembled:

Section 1. Hazing as used in this Act is an initiation rite or practice as prerequisite for admission into membership in a fraternity, sorority or organization by placing the recruit, neophyte or applicant in some embarrassing or humiliating situations such as forcing him to menial, silly, foolish and similar tasks or activities or otherwise subjecting him to physical or psychological suffering or injury.
The term organization shall include any club or the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Philippine National Police, Philippine Military Academy, or officer or cadet corps of the Citizens Military Training, Citizen's Army Training. The physical, mental and psychological testing and training procedure and practices to determine and enhance the physical, mental and psychological fitness of prospective regular members of the Armed Forces of the Philippines and the Philippine National Police as approved by the Secretary of National Defense and the National Police Commission duly the Director General of the Philippine National Police shall not be considered as hazing for the purposes of this Act.

Section 2. No hazing or initiation rites in any form or manner by a fraternity, sorority or organization shall be allowed without prior written notice to the school authorities or head of organization seven (7) days before the conduct of such initiation. The written notice shall indicate the period of the initiation activities which shall not exceed three days (3), shall include the names of to be subjected to such activities, and shall further contain an undertaking that no physical violence be employed by anybody during such initiation rites.
Section 3. The head of the school or organization or their representatives must assign at least two (2) representatives of the school or organization, as the case maybe, to be present during the initiation. It is the duty of such
 
representative to see to it that no physical harm of any kind shall be inflicted upon a recruit, neophyte or applicant.

Section 4. If the person subjected to hazing or other forms of initiation rites suffer any physical injury or dies as a result thereof, the officers and members of the fraternity, sorority or organization who actually who actually participated in the infliction of physical harm shall be liable as principals. The person or persons who participated in the hazing shall suffer:
(a)	The penalty of reclusion perpetua if death, rape, sodomy or mutilation results therefrom.
(b)	The penalty of reclusion temporal in its medium period if in consequence of the hazing the victim shall become insane, imbecile, impotent or blind.
(c)	The penalty of reclusion temporal in its medium period if in consequences of the hazing the victim shall have lost the use of speech or the power to hear, or shall have lost an eye, a hand.
(d)	A foot, an arm or a leg or shall have lost the use of any such member shall have become incapacitated for the activity or work in which he was habitually engaged.
(e)	The penalty of reclusion temporal in its minimum period if in consequence of the hazing the victim shall become deformed or shall have lost any other part of his body, or shall have lost the use thereof, or shall have been ill or incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he was habitually engaged for a period of more than ninety (90) days.
(f)	The penalty of prison mayor in its maximum period if in consequences of the hazing victim shall have been ill or incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he was habitually engaged for more than thirty (30) days.
(g)	The penalty of prison mayor in its medium period if in consequence of the hazing the victim shall have been ill or incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he was habitually engaged for ten days (10) or more, or that the injury sustained shall require medical attendance for the same period.
(h)	The penalty of prison mayor in its minimum period if in consequence of the hazing the victim shall have been ill or incapacitated for the performance of the activity or work in which he was habitually engaged from one (1) to nine (9) days, or that the injury sustained shall require medical attendance for the same period.
 
(I)	The penalty of prison correctional in its maximum period if in consequence of the hazing the victim sustained physical injuries which do not prevent him from engaging in his habituation activity or work nor require medical attendance.
The responsible officials of the school or the police, military or citizen's army training organization, may impose the appropriate administrative sanctions on the person or persons charged under this provision even before their conviction.

The maximum penalty herein provided shall be imposed in

(a)	when the recruitment is accompanied by force, violence, threat intimidation or deceit on the person of the recruit who refuses to join;
(b)	when the recruit, neophyte or applicant initially consents to join but upon learning that hazing will be committed on his person, is prevented from quitting.
(c)	When the recruit, neophyte applicant having undergone hazing is prevented from reporting the unlawful act to his parent or guardians, to the proper school authorities, through force, violence, threat intimidation;
(d)	When the hazing is committed outside of the school institution; or
(e)	When the victim is below twelve (12) years of age at the time of the hazing.
The owner of the place where hazing is conducted shall be liable as an accomplice, when he has actual knowledge of the hazing conducted therein but failed to take any action to prevent the same from occurring. If the hazing is held in the home of one of the officers or members of the fraternity, group, or organization, the parents shall be held liable as principals when they have actual knowledge of the hazing conducted therein but failed to take any action to prevent the same from occurring.

The school authorities including faculty members who consent the hazing or who have actual knowledge thereof, but failed to take any action to prevent the same from occurring shall be punished as accomplices for the acts of hazing committed by the perpetuators.
The officers, former officers, or alumni of the organization, group, fraternity or sorority who actually planned the hazing although not present when the acts constituting the hazing were committed shall be liable as principals.
 
Officers or members of an organization, group, fraternity or sorority who knowingly cooperated in carrying out the hazing by including the victim to be present thereat shall be liable as principals. A fraternity or sorority's adviser who is present when the acts constituting the hazing were committed and failed to take any action to prevent the same from occurring shall be liable as principal.
The presence of any person during the hazing is prima facie evidence of participation therein as a principal unless he prevented the commission of the acts punishable herein.

The section shall apply to the president, manager, director or other responsible office of a corporation engaged in hazing as a requirement for employment in the manner provided herein.
Section 5. If any provision or part of this Act is declared invalid or unconstitutional, the other parts or provisions thereof shall remain valid and effective.

Section 6. All laws, orders, rules or regulations which are inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of this Act are hereby amended or repealed accordingly.

Section 7. This Act shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its publication in at least two (2) national newspapers of general circulation.

Approved, June 7, 1995
 
APPENDIX C

REPUBLIC ACT NO. 7079
AN ACT PROVIDING FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND PROMOTION OF CAMPUS JOURNALISM AND OTHER PURPOSES

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines in Congress assembled.

Section 1. Title – This act shall be known and referred to as the Campus Journalism Act of 1991.

Section 2. Declaration of Policy – It is declared policy of the Sate to uphold and protect the freedom of the press even at the campus level and to promote the development and growth of campus journalism as means of strengthening of ethical values, encouraging critical and creative thinking, and developing moral character and personal discipline of the Filipino youth. In furtherance, of this policy, the State shall undertake various programs and projects aimed at improving the journalistic skills of students concerned and promoting responsible and free journalism.

Section 3. Definition of Terms

(a)	School – An institution for learning in the elementary, secondary or tertiary level comprised of the studentry, administration, faculty and non−faculty personnel.
(b)	Student Publication – The issue of any printed material that is dependently published by and which meets the needs and interest of the studentry.
(c)	Student Journalist – Any bona fide student enrolled for the current semester or term, who has passed or met the qualification and standards of the editorial board. He must likewise maintain a satisfactory academic standing.
(d)	Editorial Board – In the tertiary level, the editorial board shall be composed of student journalists who have qualified in placement examinations. In case of elementary and high school levels, the editorial board shall be composed of duly appointed faculty and adviser, the editor who qualified and the representative of the Parents− Teachers Association, who will determine the editorial policies to be implemented by the editor and staff members of the student publication.
 
At the tertiary level, the editorial board may include a publication adviser at the option of its members.

(e)	Editorial Policies – A set of guidelines by which a student publication is operated and managed, taking into account pertinent laws as well as the school administration's policies. Said guidelines shall determine the frequency of publication, the manner of selecting articles and features and other similar matters.
Section 4. Student Publication – A student publication is published by the student body through an editorial board and publication staff composed of students selected by fair and competitive examinations.

Once the publication is established, its editorial board shall freely determine its editorial student subscriptions, donations, and other sources of funds.

In no instance shall the department of Education, Culture and Sports or the school administration concerned withhold the release of funds sourced from the savings of the appropriations of respective schools and other sources intended for the student publication. Subscription fees collected by the school administration shall be released automatically to the student publication concerned.

Section 6. Publication Adviser – The publication adviser shall be selected by the school administration from a list of recommendees submitted by the publication staff. The function of the adviser shall be limited to one of technical guidance.
Section 7. Security of Tenure – A member of the publication staff must maintain his/her status as student in order to retain membership of the publication staff. A student shall not be expelled or suspended solely on the basis of articles he/she has written, or on the basis of the performance of his/her duties in the student publication.
Section 8. Press Conferences and Training Seminars – The Department of Education, Culture and Sports shall sponsor periodic competitions, press conferences and training seminars in which student−editors/writers and teachers−advisers of student publication in elementary, secondary and tertiary levels shall participate. Such competitions, conferences
 
and seminars shall be held at the institutional, divisional, and regional levels, culminating with the holding of the annual national elementary, secondary or tertiary School Press Conference in placed of historical and/or cultural interest in the country.
Section 9. Rules and Regulations – The Department of Education, Culture and Sports, in coordination of the officers of the national elementary, secondary, and tertiary organizations or official advisers of student publications, together with the student journalist at the level and existing organizations of student journalists, shall promulgate the rules and regulations and necessary for the effective implementation of this Act.

Section 10. Tax Exemption – pursuant to paragraph 4. Section 4, Article XIV of the Constitution, all grants, endowments, donations, or contributions used actually, directly and exclusively for the promotion of campus journalist as provided for in this Act shall exempt from donors or gift tax.
Section 11. Appropriations – For the initial year of implementation, the sum of Five million pesos (P5, 000,000.00) is hereby authorized to be charged against the savings for the current appropriations of the Department of Education, Culture and Sports. Thereafter, such amount as maybe necessary shall be included in the General Appropriations Act.

Section 12. Effectivity – This Act shall take effect after fifteen (15) days following the completion of its publication in the Office Gazette or in at least two (2) newspapers of general circulation (87 OG 37, Sept. 16, 1991, 5337.)
Approved, July 5, 1991
 
APPENDIX D

REPUBLIC ACT NO. 7877
AN ACT DECLARING SEXUAL HARASSMENT UNLAWFUL IN THE EMPLOYMENT, EDUCATION OR TRAINING ENVIRONMENT, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines in Congress assembled.

Section 1. Title. This act shall be known as the “Anti−Sexual Harassment Act of 1995.”

Section 2. Declaration of Policy. The state shall value the dignity of every individual, enhance the development of its human resources, guarantee full respect for human rights, and uphold the dignity of workers, employees, applicants for employment, students or those undergoing training, instruction or education. Towards this end, all forms of sexual harassment in the employment, education or training environment are hereby declared unlawful.
Section 3. Work, Education, or Training−related Sexual Harassment Defined. Work, education or training−related sexual harassment is committed by an employer, employee, manger, supervisor, agent of the employer, teacher, instructor, professor, coach, trainor, or any other person who, having authority, influence or moral ascendancy over another on a work or training or education environment, demands, requests, or otherwise requires any sexual favor from the other regardless of whether the demand, request or requirement for submission is accepted by the object said Act.
a.	In a work−related or employment environment, sexual harassment is committed when:
1.	The sexual favor is made as a condition on the hiring or in the employment, reemployment or continued employment of said individual or in granting said individual favorable compensation, terms, conditions, promotions, or privileges; or the refusal to grant the sexual favor results in limiting.
2.	Segregating or classifying the employee which in any way would discriminate, deprive or diminish employment opportunities or otherwise adversely affect said employee;
 
3.	The above acts would impair the employee's rights or privileges under existing labor laws; or
4.	The above acts would result in an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment for the employee.
b.	In an education or training environment sexual harassment is committed

1.	Against one who is wider under the care custody or suspension of the offender.
2.	Against whose education, training, apprenticeship or tutorship is entrusted to the offender.
3.	When the sexual favor is made a condition to the giving of passing grade, or the granting if honors and scholarships, or the payment of a stipend, allowance or other benefits, privileges or considerations; or
5. When sexual advances result in an intimidating, hostile or offensive environment for the student, trainee or apprentice. Any person who directs or induces another or commit any act of sexual harassment as herein defined, or who cooperates in the commission thereof by another without which it would not have been committed shall also be held liable under this Act.
Section 4. Duty of the Employer or Head of Office in a Work−related Education or Training Environment. It shall be the duty of the employer or the head of the work−related, educational or training environment or institution to prevent or deter the commission of acts of sexual harassment and to provide the procedures for the resolution, settlement or prosecution of acts of sexual harassment. Towards this end, the employer or head of the office shall.

a.	Promulgate appropriate rules and regulations in consultation with the jointly approved by the employees or students or trainees through their duly designated representatives, prescribing the procedures for the investigation of sexual harassment cases and the administrative sanctions therefore.
Administrative sanctions shall not be a bar to prosecution in the proper courts for unlawful acts of sexual harassment. The said rules and regulations issued pursuant to this subsection shall (or) include, among others, guidelines on proper decorum in the workplace and educational or training institutions.
 
b.	Create a committee on decorum and investigation of cases on sexual harassment. The committee shall conduct meetings, as the case may be, with officers and employees, teachers, instructors, professors, coaches, trainors and students or trainees to increase understanding and prevent incidents of sexual harassment. It shall also conduct the investigation of alleged cases constituting sexual harassment.
In the case of work−related environment, the committee shall be composed of at least one (1) representative from the management, the union, if any, the employees from the supervisory rank, and from the rank and the file employees.

In the case of educational or training institutions, the committee shall compose of one (1) representative from the administration, the trainors, instructors, professors or coaches and students or trainees, as the case maybe.
The employer or the head, educational or training institution shall disseminate or post a copy of this Act for the information of all concerned.

Section 5. Liability of the Employer, Head of Office, Educational or Training Institution – The employer of head of office, educational or training institution shall be solidarily liable or damages, arising from the acts of sexual harassment committed in the employment, education or training enrichment if the employer or head of office, educational or training institution is informed of such acts by the offended party and no immediate action is taken thereon.
Section 6. Independent Action for Damages – Nothing in this Act shall preclude the victim of work, education or training−related sexual harassment from instituting a separate and independent action for damages and other affirmative relief.
Section 7. Penalties – Any person who violates the provisions of this Act shall, upon conviction, be penalized by imprisonment of not less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months, or a fine of not less than ten thousand pesos (P10,000.00) or more than twenty thousand pesos (P20,000.00), or both such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
 
Any action arising from the violation of the provision of this Act shall prescribe in three (3) years.

Section 8. Separability Clause. If any portion or provision of this Act is declared void or unconstitutional, the remaining portions or provisions hereof shall not be affected by such declaration.
Section 9. Repealing Clause – All laws, decrees, order, rules and regulations, other issuances, or parts thereof consistent with the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.

Section 10. Effectivity Clause – This Act shall take affect fifteen (15) days after its complete publication in at least two (2) national newspapers of general circulation.
 
APPENDIX E

REPUBLIC ACT NO. 10627
AN ACT REQUIRING ALL ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS TO ADOPT POLICIES TO PREVENT AND ADDRESS THE ACTS OF BULLYING IN THEIR INSTITUTIONS
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines in Congress assembled:

SEC. 1. Short Title. – This Act shall be known as the “Anti−Bullying Act of
2013”.
SEC. 2. Acts of Bullying – For the purposes of this Act, “bullying” shall refer to any severe of repeated use by one or more students of a written, verbal or electronic expression, or a physical act or gesture, or any combination thereof, directed at another student that has the other student; infringing on the rights of the other student at school; or materially and substantially disrupting the education process or the orderly operation of a school; such as, but not limited to, the following:
a. Any unwanted physical contact between the bully and the victim like punching, pushing, shoving, kicking, slapping, tickling, headlocks, inflicting school pranks, teasing, fighting and the use of available objects as weapons;
c.	Any act that causes damage to a victim’s psyche and/or emotional well− being;
d.	Any slanderous statement or accusation that causes the victim undue emotional distress like directing foul language or profanity at the target, name−calling, tormenting and commenting negatively on victim’s looks, clothes and body; and
e.	Cyber−bullying or any bullying done through the use of technology or any electronic means.
SEC. 3. Adaptation of Anti-Bullying Policies. – All elementary and secondary schools are hereby directed to adopt policies to address the existence of bullying in their respective institutions. Such policies shall be regularly updated and, at a minimum, shall include provisions which:
(a)	Prohibit the following acts:

(1)	Bullying on school grounds; property immediately adjacent to school grounds; at school−sponsored or school−related activities, functions
 
or programs whether on or off school grounds; at school bus stops; on school buses or other vehicles owned, leased or used by a school; or through the use of technology or an electronic device owned, leased or used by school.
(2)	Bullying at a location, activity, function or program that is not school− related and through the use of technology or an electronic device that is not owned, leased or used by a school if the act or acts in question create a hostile environment at school for the victim, infringe on the rights of the victim at school, or materially and substantially disrupt the education process or the orderly operation of a school; and
(3)	Retaliation against a person who reports bullying, who provides information during an investigation of bullying, or who is a witness to or has reliable information about bullying;
(b)	Identify the range of disciplinary administrative actions that may be taken against a perpetrator for bullying or retaliation which shall be commensurate with the nature and gravity of the offense: Provided, That, in addition to the disciplinary sanctions imposed upon a perpetrator of bullying or retaliation, he/she shall also be required to undergo a rehabilitation program which shall be administered by the institution concerned. The parents of the said perpetrator shall be encouraged by the said institution to join the rehabilitation program;
(c)	Establish clear procedures and strategies for:
(1)	Reporting acts of bullying or retaliation;
(2)	Responding promptly to and investigating reports of bullying or retaliation;
(3)	Restoring a sense of safety for a victim and assessing the student’s
need for protection;
(4)	Protecting from bullying or retaliation of a person who reports acts of bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or is witness to or has reliable information about an act of bullying; and
(5)	Providing counseling or referral to appropriate services for perpetrators, victims and appropriate family members of said students;
(d)	Enable students to anonymously report bullying or retaliation: Provided, however, that no disciplinary administrative action shall be taken against a perpetrator solely on the basis of an anonymous report;
 
(e)	Subject a student who knowingly makes a false accusation of bullying to disciplinary administrative action;
(f)	Educate students on the dynamics of bullying, the anti−bullying policies of the school as well as the mechanisms of such school for the anonymous reporting of acts of bullying or retaliation;
(g)	Educate parents and guardians about the dynamics of bullying, the anti−bullying policies of the school and how parents and guardians can provide support and reinforce such policies at home; and
(h)	Maintain a public record of relevant information and statistics on acts of bullying or retaliation in school: Provided, That the names of students who committed acts of bullying or retaliation shall be strictly confidential and only made available to the school administration, teachers directly responsible for the said students and parents or guardians of student who are or have been victims of acts of bullying or retaliation.
All elementary and secondary schools shall provide students and their parents or guardians a copy of the anti−bullying policies being adopted by the school. Such policies shall likewise be included in the school’s student and/or employee handbook and shall be conspicuously posted on the school walls and website, if there is any.

The Department of Education (DepEd) shall include in its training programs, courses or activities which shall provide opportunities for school administrators, teachers and other employees to develop their knowledge and skills in preventing or responding to any bullying act.
SEC. 4. Mechanisms to Address Bullying. – The school principal or any person who holds a comparable role shall be responsible for the implementation and oversight of policies intended to address bullying.

Any member of the school administration, student, parent or volunteer shall immediately report any instance of bullying or act retaliation witnesses, or that has come to one’s attention, to the school principal or school officer or person so designated by the principal to handle such issues, or both. Upon receipt of such a report, the school principal or designated school officer or person shall promptly investigate. It is determined that bullying or retaliation has occurred, the school principal or the designated school officer or person shall:
 
(a)	Notify the law enforcement agency if the school principal or designee believes that criminal charges under the Revised Penal Code may be pursued against the perpetrator;
(b)	Take appropriate disciplinary administrative action;
(c)	Notify the parents or guardians of the perpetrator; and
(d)	Notify the parents or guardians of the victim regarding the action taken to prevent any further involves students from more than one school, the school first informed of the bullying or retaliation shall promptly notify the appropriate administrator of the other school so that both may take appropriate action.

SEC. 5. Reporting Requirement – All schools shall inform their respective schools division superintendents in writing about the anti−bullying policies formulated within six (6) months from the effectivity of this Act. Such notification shall likewise be an administrative requirement prior to the operation of new schools.
Beginning with the school year after the effectivity of this Act, and every first week of the start of the school year thereafter, schools shall submit a report to their respective school’s division superintendents all relevant information and statistics on acts of bullying or retaliation. The school’s division superintendents shall compile these data and report the same to the Secretary of the DepEd who shall likewise formally transmit a comprehensive report to the Committee on Basic Education of both the House of Representatives and the Senate.

SEC. 6. Sanction for Noncompliance – In the rules and regulations to be implemented pursuant to this Act, the Secretary of the DepEd shall prescribe the appropriate administrative sanctions on school administrators who shall fail to comply with the requirements under this Act. In addition, thereto, erring private schools shall likewise suffer the penalty of suspension of their permits to operate.

SEC. 7. Implementing Rules and Regulations – Within ninety (90 days) from the effectivity of this Act, the DepEd shall promulgate the necessary rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 8. Separability Clause – If, for any reason, any provision of this Act is declared to be unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions hereof which are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force or effect.
 
SEC. 9. Repealing Clause – All laws, decrees, orders, rules and regulations or parts thereof which are inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SEC. 10. Effectivity – This Act shall take effect (15) days after its publication in at least two (2) national newspapers of general circulation.

Approved,
(Sgd.) JINGGOY EJERCITO ESTRADA
Acting Senate President

(Sgd.) FELICIANO BELMONTE JR.
Speaker of the House of Representatives
This Act which originated in the House of Representatives was finally passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate on June 5, 2013.

(Sgd) EMMA LIRIO-REYES
Secretary of the Senate

(Sgd) MARILYN B. BARUA-YAP
Secretary General
(Sgd) BENIGNO S. AQUINO III
President of the Philippines
This entry was posted in Legislature, Republic Acts. Bookmark the permalink.
 
APPENDIX F

STUDENT DATA PRIVACY CONSENT FORM


Dear Students:

In order to manifest Cor Jesu College’s (CJC)utmost desire to put premium on the value and privacy to all personal data you shared with and gained from CJC and to comply with Republic Act No. 10173 also known as Data Privacy Act of 2012, its IRR, and all other relevant issuances of the National Privacy Commission which applies to the collection and processing of personal data, CJC would like to ask your consent on the general use and distribution of information and data obtained from you in the course of your application and/or enrollment with Cor Jesu College, Inc.

A.	Processing of Personal Data

Upon application for admission and during the course of enrolment, CJC collects personal information from you such as, but not limited to:
A.1	name
A.2. home and email addresses;
A.3	telephone number and other contact details;
A.4	name and occupation of parents;
A.5	previous schools attended;
A.6	academic performance;
A.7	Religion;
A.8	Health Records;
A.9	Psychological Reports (when applicable); and
A.10	Others

During the course of your stay as a student of Cor Jesu College (CJC), the school will also collect and keep information such as:
A.11	grades and other information on academic performance
A.12	co−curricular and extra−curricular activities
A.13	membership in student organizations;
 
A.14	leadership positions;
A.15	participation	and	attendance	in	various	seminars, competitions and programs;
A.16	disciplinary incident, including accompanying sanctions (if applicable);
A.17	academic counseling records;
A.18	financial and billing information; and
A.19	economic status related information
B.	Access to Information

Any personal information you shared and gained during the course of your stay as a student of (CJC)shall only be used and shared as permitted or required by law to pursue the school’s legitimate interests as an educational institution, including a variety of academic, administrative, historical, research and statistical purposes. Below are some instances that the school may use your personal information as part of the operation of being an educational institution:

1.	Evaluation of documents during enrolment and promotion to higher levels;
2.	Record, generation, and maintenance of student records at the end of each semester, school year, and when found necessary;
3.	Academic deliberations by faculty and school administrators for academic purposes;
4.	Review for scholarship grants, applications, and other forms of academic financial assistance;
5.	Participation to local, regional, and national competitions;
6.	Participation of seminars, trainings, and leadership programs;
7.	Review and deliberations of incidents that relate to student behavior;
8.	Updating of Management Information System;
9.	Maintenance of directories and alumni records;
10.	Provision of student support services such as guidance and counseling, sports, health, library, formation, research, laboratories & other facilities, and information technology; and
 
11.	Participation to research as approved by the school’s
Research Ethics Committee

C.	Sharing of Information

Below are some of the instances when CJC may share or disclose your personal information to others:

1.	Posting of lists of academic and non−academic awards in the school’s bulletin boards and official social media platforms;
2.	Posting of class lists and class schedules in the school’s
designated places;
3.	Posting of lists of graduates during commencement exercises;
4.	Sharing of information as may be required by law to promote your best interests, or protect your health, safety and security, or that of others;
5.	Sharing of information for participation to local, regional, national, and international competitions;
6.	Sharing information to the NPC and other state regulatory bodies;
7.	Providing public and private institutions, upon their request, with scholastic ranking information or certification of good moral character for purposes of admission;
8.	Sharing of information for purposes of scholarship, grants and other forms of assistance;
9.	Sharing of information for accreditation and evaluation purposes;
10.	Sharing of information for research purposes; and
11.	Publishing academic, co−curricular and extra−
curricular achievements and success, in school bulletin boards and official social media platforms;
 
Data Protection

In order to protect your personal information, the school shall implement the following security measures:

1.	CJC will only allow your data to be accessed or processed by the school’s authorized personnel.
2.	For requests to access personal information and data by third parties, CJC requires the following:
2.1	When an information is asked by somebody else, CJC will require the submission ofa notarized consent signed by the data subject and fill−out the Request for Personal Information Form;
2.2	When the person asking the information is a parent and the data subject is a minor, CJC will require the parent to fill−out the Request for Personal Information Form and require the signature of the data subject;
2.3	When the person asking the information is the parent and the data subject is his/her son/daughter which is of legal age, CJC will require the parent to submit notarized consent signed by the data subject and fill−out the Request for Personal Information Form;
2.4	When an information is asked by a CJC teacher but not the adviser, subject teacher, program head, or dean, CJC will require the submission of notarized consent signed by the data subject and fill−out the Request for Personal Information Form;
2.5	When an information is asked for purposes of educational research, CJC will require to the third party to seek the approval of the school’s Research Ethics Committee and fill−out the Request for Personal Information Form; and
3.	CJC shall implement appropriate organizational, physical, and technical security measures for the protection of personal data which it collected
 
Confidentiality

All personal information you shared with, gained from, and kept by the school shall remain confidential even after graduation. Some data will be retained based on approved retention period and shall be disposed appropriately based on approved procedure while some shall be kept permanently as prescribed by law and approved government guidelines. CJC personnel designated to manage personal information are required to sign nondisclosure agreements and shall continually undergo training to keep updated with knowledge and skills on data privacy protection and management.

At any time and for reasonable grounds, you may request the school to stop processing and sharing your personal data. You may also request to update or correct your personal information or raise questions or concerns regarding your privacy rights by contacting the school’s Data Privacy Officer at contact details provided below:
 
The Data Protection Officer Tel. No.:
Email Address:

Consent

By affixing your signature below, you hereby agree and consent to the foregoing policies and you hereby hold free and harmless and indemnify Cor Jesu College, Inc., its school administrators and employees from any and all types of complaints, suits, or damages in relation to your consent. It is also understood that your consent does not waive any of your rights under the Data Privacy Act of 2012 and other applicable laws.


Signed
Name and Signature of Student	Date If below 18 years old,


Name and Signature of Parent/Guardian	Date
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES CITY OF DIGOS
PROVINCE OF DAVAO DEL SUR


BEFORE ME, NOTARY PUBLIC for and in the Province of Davao del Sur, this	at Digos City, affiant, who personally their respective competent proof of identity:







Known to me the same persons who executed the foregoing instrument and they acknowledge to me the same in their own free act and voluntary deed.

This instrument consists of 	pages including this on which this acknowledgment is written and signed by the parties together with their instrumental witnesses.

WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL on the date and place herein above written.


Doc. No.		:		
 
Page No.		:
Book No.			: Series of	20			
 
NOTARY PUBLIC
UNTIL 	
PTR NO. 	Digos City IBP 		 NO.			TIN 		 ROLL NO. 		MCLE NO.	
 
APPENDIX G

POLICY AND GUIDELINES FOR THE CONDUCT OF DRUG TESTING FOR CRIMINOLOGY STUDENTS

RATIONALE

The government's appeal for a drug−free society is one to which Cor Jesu College Inc. ascribes and actively participates. Cor Jesian' Fight Against Drugs (CFAD), a program that involves random and required drug testing for students, was created by the College to support attempts to reduce, if not completely eradicate, the problem of illegal drugs. The main goals of the CFAD program, which mandates drug testing for tertiary students, are to ascertain the incidence of drug use among students and to offer suitable solutions to those who test positive for drug use.

Cor Jesu Criminology Department also supports the advocacy of CHED on Drug free campus. As a department who aims to provide the community with professionally competent and morally upright graduates, students who wishes to enroll must comply with the rule indicated in RULE VI of CMO 18 series of 2018. Section 15 and Section 16 of this rule will serve as the guiding principles in the admission and retention of students as indicated below:
RULE VI- DRUG TESTING OF STUDENTS IN ALL HEIs

Section 15. Drug Testing as a requirement for admission and retention. Aside from mandatory random drug testing, a Higher Education Institution may in the exercise of its institutional academic freedom include in the Student's Handbook a policy of mandatory drug testing of students as part of the school's admission and retention policies, after observance of consultation and other similar requirements. In case the drug test yielded positive results, the HEI concerned is not barred from admitting the student/applicant, unless there is a valid
 
reason not to admit such student/applicant on grounds other than the positive findings as a result of the drug test.
Section 16. Conditions for Drug Testing as a requirement for admission and retention. All HEls may implement a mandatory drug testing as part of the school's admission and retention policy, provided that:
16.1.	The mandatory drug testing shall be conducted in the same manner as the random drug testing under DDB Board Regulation No. 6, s. 2003 and No. 3, s. 2009;
16.2.	ln case the test result is confirmed positive, the Drug Testing Coordinator shall conduct a conference and inform both the parent and the student concerned;
16.3.	The confirmed positive result shall not be a basis for disciplinary action, unless the student concerned is held liable for some other violations of the schools' internal rules and regulations; and
16.4.	lf the student is found to be drug dependent, the appropriate sanction, intervention, and/or rehabilitation, shall be imposed in
accordance with the schools' Student Handbook and other applicable laws, rules and regulations.

Furthermore, SEC. 8. Pursuant to Sec 36 (c) of R.A 9165 also articulates, that all HEls is mandated to implement a mandatory random drug testing of their students, consistent with the implementing guidelines and other relevant rules and regulations, after observance of consultation and other similar requirements. For purposes of this section, the respective Governing Boards of all HEls shall incorporate in the Student Handbook a policy to conduct of mandatory random Drug testing of the students including the manner and procedures thereof in line with the DDB Regulation No. 3, s. 2009, the General Guidelines for the Conduct of Random drug Testing of Students for xxx Tertiary Schools, amending DDB Regulation No.6, s. 2003.
 
Pursuant to the above sections the guidelines outline the purposes of random drug testing program, as well as procedures and necessary consequences of positive drug- test result after confirmation.

A.	PURPOSES OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING
1.	To determine the prevalence of drug users among the students
2.	To assess the effectivity of school−based and community− based prevention programs
3.	To deter the use of illegal drugs among the students
4.	Promote “drug free” campus.
5.	Instill in the minds of the students that dangerous drugs not only interfere in their ability to learn but also disrupt the teaching environment.

B.	DRUG TESTING PROCEDURE:
1.	All students who wish to enroll in Criminology are required to undergo drug testing as mandated by law.

2.	All students and their parents shall be notified in writing on the process and manner by which drug testing shall be conducted. Such notification may be sent at any time during the school enrollment. Failure to return the acknowledgement receipt shall not be a bar to the conduct of drug testing. A 200 pesos payment shall be shouldered by the student.

3.	The selection of the students who will undergo drug testing will be made randomly and that schedule will not be posted.

4.	The head of the department in coordination with the
 
Health Services Department of the school is the point person handling random drug testing.

5.	The test shall be administered by a laboratory accredited by the Department of Health (DOH), Philippine Drug Enforcement agency (PDEA), OR Dangerous Drugs Board (DDB).
6.	The test shall be made in the school clinic to ensure confidentiality and integrity of the random testing of the students.

C.	RESULTS
1.	In all cases, the results of the test shall be strictly confidential.
2.	In case of positive test result, the name of the student/s shall be forwarded to the guidance office for referral.
3.	The student who tested positive and the parents or guardian are informed personally of the results. A meeting shall be scheduled, attended by the parents or guardian, student, Head of the Department and Prefect of discipline and drug counselor coming from the office of the Guidance and Counselling. The result shall be treated with utmost secrecy and confidentiality.
4.	Positive confirmatory drug test result arising from random drug testing conducted by the school shall not be ground for expulsion or disciplinary action and shall not be reflected in any and all academic records, and may not be used to incriminate any student for further legal action. Such result may not be used as evidence in any court or tribunal where the students stand to be accused of any crime or felony. Instead, the necessary intervention with recommended treatment options
 
shall be discussed with the parents or guardian and the students by the counselor and the head of the department during the meeting.
The student with positive confirmatory drug test result shall be referred by the counselor to a DOH−accredited government physician or facility or DOH −accredited private professional psychiatrist to determine the level of drug dependency, and recommend
1.	possible treatment and intervention.
2.	In cases the student is below 18 years old, and is confirmed to be drug dependent, the parents or guardian shall be informed of the requirements under the law for him to be referred to the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) or local social worker for counseling and intervention.
3.	In case where the student fails to complete the recommended treatment, refuses to comply with the treatment within the period given, as monitored by the Criminology Program Head, Prefect of Disciple and Guidance Counselor, or does not show improvement or fails a drug test the second time despite being referred to a DOH accredited facility or physician for intervention and treatment, he shall be dealt with accordingly under the provisions of student handbook, without prejudice to the application of Sec 61 of R.A. No. 9165.
Section 61. Compulsory Confinement of a Drug Dependent Who Refuses to Apply Under the Voluntary Submission Program. – Notwithstanding any law, rule and regulation to the contrary, any person determined and found to be dependent on dangerous drugs shall, upon petition by the Board or any of its authorized representative, be confined for treatment and rehabilitation in any Center duly designated or accredited for the purpose.
 
5. In case where the student refuses to undergo random drug testing, he shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary proceedings by the Office Prefect of Discipline (OPD) and shall be given the appropriate sanction pursuant to the Student Discipline Handbook.





References:


Ched Memo No. 18 s 2018 − THE IMPLEMENTING GUIDELINES FOR THE CONDUCT OF DRUG TESTING OF STUDENTS IN ALL HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS (HEI’S)
Republic Act 9165− AN ACT INSTITUTING THE COMPREHENSIVE DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT OF 2002, REPEALING REPUBLIC ACT NO. 6425, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE DANGEROUS DRUGS ACT OF 1972, AS AMENDED, PROVIDING FUNDS THEREFOR, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
DANGEROUS DRUGS BOARD - BOARD REGULATION No. 3
Series of 2009

GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR THE CONDUCT OF RANDOM DRUG TESTING FOR STUDENTS OF SECONDARY, TERTIARY, VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL SCHOOLS, AMENDING BOARD REGULATION NO. 6, SERIES OF 2003
 
APPENDIX H
LOCATION MAP: COR JESU COLLEGE CAMPUSES

 
APPENDIX I

NAME OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS
Father Andre Coindre - 1787–1826

Born in Lyons, France in 1787, he was ordained as diocesan priest in 1812 and conducted missions throughout France. He founded the Congregation of the Sisters of Jesus and Mary in 1818 and the Institute of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart in 1821 to come to the rescue of neglected and abandoned children after the French Revolution. With his desire to spread the mission of education in the faith especially among the young who are poor and without hope, the Brothers of the Sacred Heart are now in Europe, Africa, America, Asia and the Pacific wherever they are needed.
Brother Polycarp, SC (Jn-HippolyteGondre) 1801–1859

Born at La Motte in France in 1801, he pronounced his first and final vows in 1829 and was elected as the first Brother of the Sacred Heart to become Superior General in 1841 for five years and in 1846 for life. He rebuilt the Institute which was on the decline at that time. In 1846, he was the first Brothers to America. He was declared Venerable by Pope John Paul II, 1984.
Brother Roger, SC (Roger Bouley) 1920–1990

Born in Nashua, New Hampshire, USA in 1920, he made his profession as a brother of the Sacred Heart in 1937. He was the provincial of the Province of Ottawa from 1966 to 1973. After his second term as provincial, he came to the Philippines to join the brothers in their mission. He was rector of the Holy Cross College of Digos from 1974 to 1976 and worked for the organization of the college alumni.

Bishop Clovis Thibault, PME, DD
Born on March 13 in 1910, he was an alumnus of the Brothers of the Sacred Heart in Canada. He was the first Bishop of the Prelature of Davao. He requested from Bro. Josaphat, Superior General of the brothers of the Sacred Heart, members of the institute to be assigned to the Boy's Department of the Holy Cross Academy of Digos in 1959. He was instrumental with the assistance of Msgr. Maurice Michaud, PME, in the establishment of the
 
Brother's Formation Center in Davao which he blessed in 1962. He died on April 20, 1975.

Brother Elric, SC (Jn-Paul Beaudet) 1921–1992
Born in Montreal, Canada in 1921, he assumed the administration of Holy Cross Academy, Boy's Department in Digos and headed the first group of brothers in the Philippines. He became the director and rector of the High School and College and in 1962, the first Regional Superior of the District of the Philippines. Through a resolution, the town council adopted him as “Son of Digos” for his contribution to the educational welfare of the population. He died in Canada in 1992 at the age of 71.

Brother Jules, SC (Gaston Ledoux) 1904–1990
Born at St. Hyacinthe, Canada in 1904, he pronounced his first vows in 1920 and in 1937 founded the mission of Basutoland (Lesotho), Africa. He was elected third assistant general in 1958 and superior general in 1964. He made a canonical visit to the Philippines in 1969 to support the support the work of the brothers in Davao and in Digos. He died in Canada in 1990 at the age of 86.

Brother Xavier, SC (Gillaume Arnaud) 1801–1861
Born at La Rochette, France in 1801, he was the first man recruited by Fr. Andre Coindre to found the Congregation of the Brothers of the Sacred heart. He became first assistant general (1824−1890) and econome general and was given the title of “Savior of the Institute” for he saved the congregation twice from bankruptcy and assured the future of the institute by his sound management and deep religious spirit. He died in 1861.

Brother Josaphat, SC (Joseph Vanier) 1902–1982

Born an St. Faustin (Terrebonne), Canada in 1902, he was the first Canadian Superior General and led the Institute from 1952−1964. In 1959, he accepted the request of Msgr. Clovis Thibault, P.M.E, D.D., bishop of the Prelature of Davao, to send brothers to the Philippines. He made his canonical visit of the community in Digos in 1961. He went as a missionary to Senegal, Africa and retired in Canada in 1972 where he died in 1982 at the age of 80.
 
Brother Francis A. Chamberland, SC (Francois Chamberland) 1933–2001

Born in St. Isidore−de−Bellevue, Saskatchewan, Canada in 1933, he entered the Brothers of the Sacred Heart in 1956 and came to the Philippines in 1965. He was Princiopal of the High School and Grade School and director−founder of the Vocational and Technical School in Digos. A master teacher of English, especially literature, he also taught history, natural science and religion. He died and was buried in Davao in 2001.
Diosdado M. Ypil - 1919–2000

Born on November, 1919 in Danao, Cebu City, he was one of the pillars of Cor Jesu College then Holy Cross Academy of Digos Boy's Department. As a pioneer, he had been appointed Principal, registrar and Treasurer. He retired in 1987 and died on March 8, 2000.
Teodosio P. Geyrozaga - 1925–1989

Born on March 23, 1925 in Argao, Cebu City, he was one of the pioneer teachers of the former Holy Cross Boy's Department now Cor Jesu College. He became a teacher in the college in 1970 and retired in 1985, but his love for teaching and for Cor Jesu prompted him to teach again. He was appointed Prefect of Discipline in 1987 and died in such a position on August 19, 1989 at the age of 64.
 
APPENDIX J ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE



 

 

 

